'\" t
.\" $Header: /cvsroot/xbae/Xbae/src/XbaeMatrix.3.in,v 1.27 2005/07/31 18:35:33 tobiasoed Exp $
.\"
.\"
.\" Don't touch the macros here - they appear to do some magic to make the .LI
.\" lines display its parameter as a heading, instead of just a bullet.
.\"
..
.de cI
.IP \fI\\$1\fR 10
..
.de LI
.IP \fB\\$1\fR 5
..
.\"
.\" End of those lines.
.\"
.\" Some macro definitions for simplifying this manual page
.\"
.de xcb1
.B \\$1(\|)
.PP
.RS
..
.de xcb2
.sp
..
.de xcb3
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
..
.\" .B XbaeMatrixSetCellWidget(\|)
.\" .PP
.\" .RS
.\" .TS
.\" l s s
.\" l l li .
.\" void XbaeMatrixSetCellWidget(w, row, column, widget) 
.\" 	Widget	w;
.\" 	int	row;
.\" 	int	column;
.\" 	Widget	widget;
.\" .TE
.\" .sp
.\" .B XbaeMatrixSetCellWidget(\|)
.\" is a function to attach a widget to a matrix cell.
.\" The cell is selected by specifying its
.\" .B row
.\" and
.\" .B column ,
.\" .B widget
.\" is the cell widget to be associated with that cell.
.\" XbaeMatrix will manage the cell widget's position and size so it
.\" is displayed inside the cell at all times, including when scrolling.
.\" .PP
.\" Using a NULL
.\" .B widget
.\" removes the link between a widget and its cell.
.\" Only one widget can be in a cell,
.\" a widget should also be in only one cell at a time.
.\" .sp
.\" .ne 6
.\" .RE
.\"
.\" End of those lines.
.\"
.TH XbaeMatrix 3x "2005-10-26" "4.60.2" "xbae"
.SH NAME
XbaeMatrix
\- The Bellcore Application Environment (BAE) XbaeMatrix widget class.
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <Xbae/Matrix.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B XbaeMatrix
presents an editable array of string data to the user in a
scrollable grid-like format similar to a spreadsheet.  Non editable pixmaps
can also be displayed on the matrix.  The rows and
columns of the Matrix may optionally be labeled.  Also, a number of
fixed leading or trailing rows or columns may be specified - these
behave similarly to the labels.  While
.B XbaeMatrix
looks and acts like a grid of
.B XmText
widgets, it actually contains only one
.BR XmText .
This means that
.B XbaeMatrix
widgets with hundreds or thousands of rows have
much less overhead than they would if they used an
.B XmText
for each cell.
.PP
Clicking on a cell with 
.B Button1
will edit the cell.  While a cell is
being edited,
.B Tab
and
.B Shift-Tab
will edit the cell to the right or left
respectively.  The
.B osfUp
and
.B osfDown
keys will edit the cell above or
below.
.B Ctrl-Tab
and
.B Shift-Ctrl-Tab will traverse out of the Matrix and
into the next or previous tab groups.
.PP
The
.B osfCancel
key will cancel any edits made to a cell.  The
.B osfActivate
key will commit any edits made to a cell and store them in the Matrix.
When traversing from another tab group into the Matrix, the focus will
go to whichever cell is currently being edited.  If no cells are being
edited, then the upper left most visible non-fixed cell will be edited.
.PP
The column sizes may be dynamically resized by pressing the Shift-Button2
combination when over a column boundary, similar to the behaviour of some
popular spreadsheets.  After a column has been resized in this manner,
the
.B XbaeMatrix
calls the callbacks on the
.B XmNresizeColumnCallback
callback list for post processing.
.PP
If the Matrix is resized until it is too small to display all of the
cells in a given dimension, then it will display a ScrollBar for that
dimension.  The horizontal ScrollBar will scroll the cells and column
labels, but not the row labels, fixed columns or trailing fixed columns.
The vertical ScrollBar will scroll the cells and row labels, but not the
column labels, fixed rows or trailing fixed rows.
.PP
For the application programmer,
.B XbaeMatrix
provides callbacks to assist in data validation.  The callbacks on the
.B XmNmodifyVerifyCallback
callback list are called before text is inserted into, or deleted from,
a cell.  This callback list can be used to force user input to match a
certain pattern (e.g. a date format).  Similarly, the
.B XmNvalueChangedCallback
is called after text is inserted or deleted.
.PP
When a cell is edited (by clicking on it or tabbing into it), the
.B XmNleaveCellCallback
callbacks are called for the previous cell being
edited, if any.  The application can verify the data entered in that
cell and disallow editing of the new cell if the data is invalid.  If
the data was valid, then the
.B XmNenterCellCallback
callbacks for the new cell are called.  These callbacks can be used to
specify the editability of the new cell.
.PP
The
.B XmNtraverseCellCallback
callbacks are also called when the user attempts to edit a new cell and 
when the matrix gains or looses focus.
This allows the application to override the default traversal behavior
of
.BR XbaeMatrix .
.PP
The
.B XmNdefaultActionCallback
is provided to allow a double click action in a cell to perform
some function.
.PP
Motif's Drag and Drop functionality can be achieved via the
.BR XmNprocessDragCallback .
.PP
For large amounts of data, the overhead of assigning data to the widget
can be avoided using the
.BR XmNdrawCellCallback .
This callback also allows user defined pixmaps to be placed in a certain
cell.
When using this callback, data for string fields can be written back to the
application by using the
.BR XmNwriteCellCallback .
.SH "Classes"
.B XbaeMatrix
inherits behavior and resources from the 
.BR Core ,
.BR Composite ,
.BR Constraint ,
and 
.B XmManager
widget classes.
.br
The class pointer is 
.BR xbaeMatrixWidgetClass .
.br
The class name is 
.BR XbaeMatrix .
.SH "New Resources"
The following table lists the new resources defined by
.BR XbaeMatrix .
The codes in the ``Access'' column indicate whether the given resource can be
set at creation time (C), or set by using XtSetValues (S), or retrieved
by using XtGetValues (G).
.sp
.TS
expand box;
c s s s s
lb | lb | lb | lb | lb
lp7 | lp7 | lp7 | lp7 | lp7 .
XbaeMatrix Resource Set
_
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
=
XmNallowColumnResize	XmCAllowResize	Boolean	True	CSG
_
XmNallowRowResize	XmCAllowResize	Boolean	True	CSG
_
XmNaltRowCount	XmCAltRowCount	int	1	CSG
_
XmNboldLabels	XmCBoldLabels	Boolean	False	CSG
_
XmNbuttonLabels	XmCButtonLabels	Boolean	False	CSG
_
XmNbuttonLabelBackground	XmCColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNcalcCursorPosition	XmCCalcCursorPosition	Boolean	False	CSG
_
XmNcellBackgrounds	XmCColors	PixelTable	NULL	CSG
_
XmNcellHighlightThickness	XmCHighlightThickness	Dimension	2	CSG
_
XmNcellMarginHeight	XmCMarginHeight	Dimension	3	CSG
_
XmNcellMarginWidth	XmCMarginWidth	Dimension	3	CSG
_
XmNcellShadowThickness	XmCShadowThickness	Dimension	2	CSG
_
XmNcellShadowType	XmCShadowType	unsigned char	XmSHADOW_OUT	CSG
_
XmNcellShadowTypes	XmCCellShadowTypes	unsigned char **	NULL	CSG
_
XmNcellUserData	XmCCellUserData	XtPointer **	NULL	CSG
_
XmNclipWindow	XmCClipWindow	Widget	NULL	G
_
XmNcells	XmCCells	CellTable	NULL	CSG
_
XmNcolors	XmCColors	PixelTable	NULL	CSG
_
XmNcolumnAlignments	XmCAlignments	AlignmentArray	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNcolumnButtonLabels	XmCButtonLabels	BooleanArray	NULL	CSG
_
XmNcolumnLabelAlignments	XmCAlignments	AlignmentArray	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNcolumnLabelBackgrounds	XmCLabelColor	PixelArray	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNcolumnLabelColor	XmCColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNcolumnLabelForegrounds	XmCLabelColor	PixelArray	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNcolumnLabels	XmCLabels	StringArray	NULL	CSG
_
XmNcolumnMaxLengths	XmCColumnMaxLengths	MaxLengthArray	NULL	CSG
_
XmNcolumnShadowTypes	XmCShadowTypes	unsigned char *	NULL	CSG
_
XmNcolumnUserData	XmCUserDatas	XtPointer *	NULL	CSG
_
XmNcolumnWidthInPixels	XmCColumnWidthInPixels	Boolean	False	CSG
_
XmNcolumnWidths	XmCColumnWidths	WidthArray	NULL	CSG
_
XmNcolumns	XmCColumns	int	0	CSG
_
XmNdefaultActionCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	CSG
_
XmNdoubleClickInterval	XmCDoubleClickInterval	int	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNdrawCellCallback	XmCCallback	Callback	NULL	CSG
_
XmNenterCellCallback	XmCCallback	Callback	NULL	CSG
_
XmNevenRowBackground	XmCBackground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNfill	XmCFill	Boolean	False	CSG
_
XmNhorzFill	XmCHorzFill	Boolean	False	CSG
_
XmNvertFill	XmCVertFill	Boolean	False	CSG
_
XmNfixedColumns	XmCFixedColumns	Dimension	0	CSG
_
XmNfixedRows	XmCFixedRows	Dimension	0	CSG
_
XmNfontList	XmCFontList	FontList	fixed	CSG
_
.TE
.TS
expand box;
c s s s s
lb | lb | lb | lb | lb
lp7 | lp7 | lp7 | lp7 | lp7 .
XbaeMatrix Resource Set (continued)
_
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
=
XmNgridLineColor	XmCColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNgridType	XmCGridType	GridType	XmGRID_CELL_LINE	CSG
_
XmNhighlightedCells	XmCHighlightedCells	HighlightTable *	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNhorizontalScrollBar	XmCHorizontalScrollBar	Widget	NULL	G
_
XmNhorizontalScrollBarDisplayPolicy	XmCMatrixScrollBarDisplayPolicy	unsigned char	XmDISPLAY_AS_NEEDED	CSG
_
XmNlabelActivateCallback	XmCCallback	Callback	NULL	CSG
_
XmNlabelFont	XmCFontList	FontList	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNleaveCellCallback	XmCCallback	Callback	NULL	CSG
_
XmNleftColumn	XmCLeftColumn	int	0	CSG
_
XmNmodifyVerifyCallback	XmCCallback	Callback	NULL	CSG
_
XmNmultiLineCell	XmCMultiLineCell	Boolean	False	CSG
_
XmNnonFixedDetachedLeft	XmCNonFixedDetachedLeft	Boolean	False	CSG
_
XmNnonFixedDetachedTop	XmCNonFixedDetachedTop	Boolean	False	CSG
_
XmNoddRowBackground	XmCBackground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNprocessDragCallback	XmCCallback	Callback	NULL	CSG
_
XmNrenderTable	XmCRenderTable	RenderTable	NULL	CSG
_
XmNresizeCallback	XmCCallback	Callback	NULL	CSG
_
XmNresizeColumnCallback	XmCCallback	Callback	NULL	CSG
_
XmNreverseSelect	XmCReverseSelect	Boolean	False	CSG
_
XmNrowButtonLabels	XmCButtonLabels	BooleanArray	NULL	CSG
_
XmNrowHeightInPixels	XmCRowHeightInPixels	Boolean	True	CSG
_
XmNrowHeights	XmCColumnWidths	WidthArray	NULL	CSG
_
XmNrowLabelAlignment	XmCAlignment	Alignment	XmALIGNMENT_END	CSG
_
XmNrowLabelBackgrounds	XmCLabelColor	PixelArray	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNrowLabelColor	XmCColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNrowLabelForegrounds	XmCLabelColor	PixelArray	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNrowLabelWidth	XmCRowLabelWidth	Short	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNrowLabels	XmCLabels	StringArray	NULL	CSG
_
XmNrowShadowTypes	XmCShadowTypes	unsigned char *	NULL	CSG
_
XmNrowUserData	XmCUserDatas	XtPointer *	NULL	CSG
_
XmNrows	XmCRows	int	0	CSG
_
XmNscrollBarPlacement	XmCScrollBarPlacement	unsigned char	XmBOTTOM_RIGHT	CSG
_
XmNselectCellCallback	XmCCallback	Callback	NULL	CSG
_
XmNselectScrollVisible	XmCSelectScrollVisible	Boolean	True	CSG
_
XmNselectedBackground	XmCColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNselectedCells	XmCSelectedCells	BooleanTable	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNselectedForeground	XmCColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNshadowType	XmCShadowType	unsigned char	XmSHADOW_IN	CSG
_
XmNshowArrows	XmCShowArrows	Boolean	False	CSG
_
XmNspace	XmCSpace	Dimension	4	CSG
_
XmNtextBackground	XmCBackground	Pixel	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXEL	CSG
_
XmNtextBackgroundIsCell	XmCTextBackgroundIsCell	Boolean	False	CSG
_
.TE
.TS
expand box;
c s s s s
lb | lb | lb | lb | lb
lp7 | lp7 | lp7 | lp7 | lp7 .
XbaeMatrix Resource Set (continued)
_
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
=
XmNtextField	XmCTextField	Widget	NULL	G
_
XmNtextShadowThickness	XmCTextShadowThickness	Dimension	0	CSG
_
XmNtextTranslations	XmCTranslations	TranslationTable	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNtopRow	XmCTopRow	int	0	CSG
_
XmNtrackcellCallback	XmCCallback	Callback	NULL	CSG
_
XmNtrailingAttachedBottom	XmCTrailingAttachedBottom	Boolean	False	CSG
_
XmNtrailingAttachedRight	XmCTrailingAttachedRight	Boolean	False	CSG
_
XmNtrailingFixedColumns	XmCTrailingFixedColumns	Dimension	0	CSG
_
XmNtrailingFixedRows	XmCTrailingFixedRows	Dimension	0	CSG
_
XmNtraverseCellCallback	XmCCallback	Callback	NULL	CSG
_
XmNtraverseFixedCells	XmCTraverseFixedCells	Boolean	False	CSG
_
XmNuseXbaeInput	XmCUseXbaeInput	Boolean	False	CSG
_
XmNvalueChangedCallback	XmCCallback	Callback	NULL	CSG
_
XmNverticalScrollBar	XmCVerticalScrollBar	Widget	NULL	G
_
XmNverticalScrollBarDisplayPolicy	XmCMatrixScrollBarDisplayPolicy	unsigned char	XmDISPLAY_AS_NEEDED	CSG
_
XmNvisibleColumns	XmCVisibleColumns	Dimension	0	CSG
_
XmNvisibleRows	XmCVisibleRows	Dimension	0	CSG
_
XmNwrapType	XmCWrapType	Boolean	XbaeWrapNone	CSG
_
XmNwriteCellCallback	XmCCallback	Callback	NULL	CSG
_
XmNxmColumnLabels	XmCXmLabels	XmString *	NULL	CSG
_
XmNxmRowLabels	XmCXmLabels	XmString *	NULL	CSG
_
.TE
.PP
This resource cannot be specified in a resource file
.PP
.LI XmNallowColumnResize
If True, allows the columns to be dynamically resized via the ResizeColumns(\|) action.
The default value is to allow column resizing.
.LI XmNallowRowResize
If True, allows the rows to be dynamically resized via the ResizeRows(\|) action.
The default value is to allow row resizing.
.LI XmNaltRowCount
Specifies the number of rows to use for each of the
.B XmNevenRowBackground
and
.B XmNoddRowBackround
colors. This resource is ignored if
.B XmNevenRowBackground
and
.B XmNoddRowBackround
are not used.
.LI XmNboldLabels
Overstrikes the row and column labels to create a bold font appearance
when True.
.LI XmNbuttonLabels
When set to True, the labels will be drawn with a shadow around them similar
to an
.B XmPushButton
widget. A ButtonPress event generated on the labels, when
.B XmNbuttonLabels
is True will cause the label to reverse the shadow and take on a pushed in
appearance.  A ButtonRelease event on the same label will invoke callbacks
on the
.BR XmNlabelActivateCallback ,
list. The default value is False.
.LI XmNbuttonLabelBackground
Specifies a Pixel value in which to draw the
.BR XmNbuttonLabels .
.LI XmNcalcCursorPosition
If set to True, the insertion position on the text field is calculated
with respect to where the pointer was clicked in the cell.  The default
value is False.  The insertion position will be overridden if the
.I position
member of the
.B XbaeEnterCellCallbackStruct
is set to a valid position.
.LI XmNcellBackgrounds
Points to an array of pointers to rows. Each row is an array of Pixel
values, one for each column in that row. This data structure is the same
as that for
.BR XmNcells ,
except each entry is a Pixel instead of a String.
The background of a cell will be drawn in the color specified for that cell.
If
.B XmNcellBackgrounds
is 
.SM NULL,
backgrounds will be drawn using the color specified by
.BR XmNbackground .
This resource is copied.
.B XmNcellBackgrounds may be specified in a resource file but due to the
two dimensional nature of the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget, it must be done by terminating each line with a \\n character.
If the
.B XbaeMatrix widget had
.B XmNrows
set to 5 and
.B XmNcolumns
set to 5,
.B XmNcellBackgrounds
would be specified as:
.sp
\fC
.TS
l l .
*mw.cellBackgrounds:	blue, white, blue, white, blue\\n\\ 
	white, blue, white, blue, white\\n\\ 
	blue, white, blue, white, blue\\n\\ 
	white, blue, white, blue, white\\n\\ 
	blue, white, blue, white, blue\\n
.TE
\fR
Care must be taken when specifying these values in a resource file as
an incorrect format can produce undesirable results.
.LI XmNcellHighlightThickness
Specifies the
.B XmNhighlightThickness
resource of the
.B XmText
cell
edit widget. This resource is also used to compute the size of each
cell. See the description of
.B XmNhighlightThickness
in
.BR XmText(3X) .
.LI XmNcellMarginHeight
Specifies the
.B XmNmarginHeight 
resource of the
.B XmText
widget. This resource is also used to compute the size of each cell. See
the description of
.B XmNmarginHeight
in
.BR XmText(3X) .
.LI XmNcellMarginWidth
Specifies the
.B XmNmarginWidth
resource of the
.B XmText
cell edit
widget. This resource is also used to compute the size of each cell. See
the description of
.B XmNmarginWidth
in
.BR XmText(3X) .
.LI XmNcellShadowThickness
Specifies the
.B XmNshadowThickness
resource of the
.B XmText
cell edit
widget. This resource is also used to compute the size of each cell. See
the description of
.B XmNshadowThickness
in
.BR XmText(3X) .
.LI XmNcellShadowType
Specifies the type of shadow drawn around each cell.  Possible values for
this resource are
.BR XmSHADOW_OUT ,
.BR XmSHADOW_IN ,
.BR XmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT ,
and
.BR XmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN .
The default shadow type is
.BR XmSHADOW_OUT .
.LI XmNcellShadowTypes
Specifies on a per cell basis, the
.BR XmNcellShadowType .
Values for the resource are the same as for 
.BR XmNcellShadowType .
This resource is copied.
.LI XmNcellUserData
Points to an array of pointers to individual user defined data areas
associated with each cell.
The data should be set using
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellUserData(\|)
and retrieved using
.BR XbaeMatrixGetCellUserData(\|) .
This resource cannot be specified in a resource file and is copied.
.LI XmNcells
Points to an array of pointers to rows. Each row is an array of String,
one for each column in that row. For example, the cells for a 2x3 Matrix
could be set up as follows: 
.sp
\fC
.TS
tab(^);
l s s s
l l l l .
String rows[2][3] =
{
^"00",^"01",^"02",
^"10",^"11",^"12"
};
.TE
.TS
l l l
l l l.
	String *cells[2];
	cells[0] = &rows[0][0];
	cells[1] = &rows[1][0];
.TE
\fR
.sp
Now cells could be used as the
.B XmNcells
resource. If
.B XmNcells
is
.SM NULL,
.B XbaeMatrix
will
.B not
generate an internal table of empty Strings. This implies that if
.B XmNcells 
is
.BR NULL ,
no cells have been set.
This resource is copied.  See the discussion in
.B XmNcellBackgrounds
for how to specify
.B XmNcells
in a resource file.
.LI XmNclipWindow
The widget ID of the clip window.  The clip window is the widget that
contains the non-fixed region of cells. This resource can not be set
to a new value.
.LI XmNcolors
Points to an array of pointers to rows. Each row is an array of Pixel
values, one for each column in that row. This data structure is the same
as that for
.BR XmNcells ,
except each entry is a Pixel instead of a String.
The text in a cell will be drawn in the color specified for that cell.
If
.B XmNcolors
is 
.SM NULL,
text will be drawn using the color specified by
.BR XmNforeground .
This resource is copied. See the discussion in
.B XmNcellBackgrounds
for how to specify
.B XmNcolors
in a resource file.
.LI XmNcolumnAlignments
Points to an array of alignments (unsigned char), one for each column.
Each element can be one of 
.BR XmALIGNMENT_BEGINNING ,
.BR XmALIGNMENT_CENTER " or " XmALIGNMENT_END .
This specifies the alignment of the text or pixmap in each cell
of that column. See the description of 
.B XmNalignment
for 
.BR XmLabel(3X) .
If
.B XmNcolumnAlignments
is 
.SM NULL, 
each column will default to
.BR XmALIGNMENT_BEGINNING .
This resource is copied.
.LI XmNcolumnButtonLabels
An array of Booleans that tells the
.B XbaeMatrix
which column labels should be drawn as a button.  Each Boolean can be
specified as a Boolean string or integer. In order to use this resource,
.B XmNbuttonLabels
should be set to False.
.LI XmNcolumnLabelAlignments
Points to an array of alignments (unsigned char), one for each column
label. Each element can be one of 
.B XmALIGNMENT_BEGINNING,
.BR XmALIGNMENT_CENTER " or " XmALIGNMENT_END .
This specifies the alignment of
the text of each column label. See the description of 
.B XmNalignment
for
.BR XmLabel(3X) .
If 
.B XmNcolumnLabelAlignments
is
.SM NULL,
each column label will
default to 
.BR XmALIGNMENT_BEGINNING .
This resource is copied.
.LI XmNcolumnLabelBackgrounds
Points to an array of pixel values which specifies the background color of each of
the column labels. If
.B XmNcolumnLabelBackgrounds
is
.SM NULL,
each column label background will be set according to other resources. This resource is copied.
.LI XmNcolumnLabelColor
Specifies a Pixel value in which to draw the
.BR XmNcolumnLabels .
.LI XmNcolumnLabelForegrounds
Points to an array of pixel values which specifies the foreground color of each of
the column labels. If
.B XmNcolumnLabelForeground
is
.SM NULL,
each column label background will be set according to other resources. This resource is copied.
.LI XmNcolumnLabels
Points to an array of Strings to be drawn above each column. Each String
may have embedded newline characters, in which case the label will be
drawn on multiple lines. If there is a 
.B XmNxmColumnLabels 
defined for this coluumn it will be displayed in place of the 
.B XmNcolumnLabels. 
If
.B XmNcolumnLabels 
and
.B XmNxmColumnLabels 
are
.SM NULL, 
no labels will be drawn. This resource is copied. 
.LI XmNcolumnMaxLengths
Points to an array of int, one for each column. These specify the
maximum length of a String which can be entered in the cells in that
column. See the description of the 
.B XmText(3X) XmNmaxLength
resource. If 
.B XmNcolumnMaxLengths
is
.SM NULL
or an element of the array is equal to 0,
then the corresponding width
from 
.B XmNcolumnWidths
is used. This resource is copied.
.LI XmNcolumnShadowTypes
Specifies on a per column basis, the
.BR XmNcellShadowType .
Values for the resource are the same as for 
.BR XmNcellShadowType .
This resource is copied.
.LI XmNcolumnUserData
Points to a user defined data area associated with a particular column.
The data should be set using
.B XbaeMatrixSetColumnUserData(\|)
and retrieved using
.BR XbaeMatrixGetColumnUserData(\|) .
This resource cannot be specified in a resource file.
.LI XmNcolumnWidthInPixels
Specifies wether the elements of 
.B XmNcolumnWidths 
are measured in pixels or characters.
.LI XmNcolumnWidths
Points to an array of short, one for each column. These specify the
visible width of the cells in each column. See the description of the
.B XmText(3X) XmNcolumns
resource. 
This resource is copied.
.LI XmNcolumns
Specifies the total number of columns of cells. 
.B XmNcolumns
must be at
least one. If the number of columns is changed via XtSetValues, then
.B XmNcolumnMaxLengths
must change or be
.SM NULL,
.B XmNcolumnLabels
must change or be
.SM NULL,
.B XmNcolumnAlignments
must change
or be
.SM NULL 
and 
.B XmNcolumnLabelAlignments
must change or be
.SM NULL.
The preferred way to dynamically change the number of columns is to use
.BR XbaeMatrixAddColumns(\|) " or " XbaeMatrixDeleteColumns(\|) .
.LI XmNdefaultActionCallback
Specifies a list of callbacks to be called when a double click occurs
in a cell.  A pointer to an
.B XbaeMatrixDefaultActionCallbackStruct
is passed to the callbacks. Events are reported to the cell in which the
double click occurs regardless of whether or not a callback exists.  This
callback is called by the DefaultAction(\|) action and is NULL by default.
The
.B XmNdefaultActionCallback
is ideal for popping up a dialog or other window when a double click occurs.
.LI XmNdoubleClickInterval
Specifies the amount of time between mouse clicks before it is considered
a double click.  A double click is defined to be the time between the
realease of the mouse button and subsequent press in the same cell.  The
default value is inherited from the display.
.LI XmNdrawCellCallback
Specifies a list of callbacks to be called when a cell needs to be
drawn. A pointer to an
.B XbaeMatrixDrawCellCallbackStruct
is passed to
the callbacks. The application can specify what to put in a cell by modifying
the callback struct's data fields. When the
application callback returns to the widget code, the type field will
determine what the widget draws on the screen. If the value is
.BR XbaeString ,
then the regular string drawing function for the widget
will be called with the value the applicaton assigned to the string
field in the struct. If the value is 
.BR XbaeStringFree 
the widget also calls
.BR XtFree 
on the string when it is not needed anymore. Else, if the value is
.BR XbaePixmap ,
the widget will
do an
.BR XCopyPlane(\|) ,
in the case of a single plane bitmap, or
.BR XCopyArea(\|) ,
in the case of a color pixmap.
The width and height of cell is passed
in the struct so the application can know how big to make the
pixmap. In no case will a copy of the string or the pixmap value
be made. The widget also uses the
.B XmNcolumnAlignments
resource to determine the horizontal alignment of the Pixmap.
To have an editable array of data when the
.B XmNdrawCellCallback
is used and the cell is of type XbaeString or XbaeStringFree, 
use the
.BR XmNwriteCellCallback .
.LI XmNenterCellCallback
Specifies a list of callbacks to be called immediately before a cell is
to be edited. This callback list is called by the EditCell(\|) action. A
pointer to an
.B XbaeMatrixEnterCellCallbackStruct
is passed to the
callbacks. The application can specify the editability of specific cells
using this callback list as well as specifying configuration options
for the
.BR XmText .
.LI XmNevenRowBackground
Specifies a background cell Pixel value to use on even rows. This allows the
matrix to look like computer paper. For wider bands of color,
increase the size of
.BR XmNaltRowCount .
.LI XmNfill
If True, controls whether the matrix should fill all of its available
space when additional space if available, or if it should simply size
itself as large as necessary, regardless of any additonal available space.
.LI XmNhorzFill
If True, controls whether the matrix should highlight available space on
the right of the selected cell(s) when the selected cell(s) are in the 
last column of the matrix.
.LI XmNvertFill
If True, controls whether the matrix should highlight available space below
the selected cell(s) when the selected cell(s) are in the last row of the 
Matrix.
.LI XmNfixedColumns
Specifies the number of leading columns (starting from the left column)
which should not be horizontally scrollable.
.B XmNfixedColumns
must be less
than 
.BR XmNcolumns - XmNtrailingFixedColumns .
Cells in fixed columns are not editable unless
.B XmNtraverseFixedCells
is set to True.
.LI XmNfixedRows
Specifies the number of leading rows (starting from the top row) which
should not be vertically scrollable.
.B XmNfixedRows
must be less than 
.BR XmNrows - XmNtrailingFixedRows .
Cells in fixed rows are not editable unless
.B XmNtraverseFixedCells
is set to True.
.LI XmNfontList
If the value of
.B XmNrenderTable 
is NULL this resource specifies the font list to be used for the text displayed in the cells and the 
.B XmText
cell edit widget. See
.B XmFontListCreate(3X)
to create a font list. This resource is copied.  The preferred way 
of specifying a font for the table is in a resource file.

When drawing a cell, the matrix uses the first entry with the tag 
.B XmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG 
if no tag has been set on the cell using
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellTag.
If a tag has been set on the cell the first entry with a matching tag is used.
.LI XmNgridLineColor
Specifies the color in which the grid line should be drawn if
.B XmNgridType
is set to
.BR XmGRID_CELL_LINE ,
.B XmGRID_ROW_LINE
or
.BR XmGRID_COLUMN_LINE .
The default is that of
.BR XmNforeground .
.LI XmNgridType
Sets the way the matrix grid is drawn.  The grid types available include
.BR XmGRID_NONE ,
.BR XmGRID_CELL_LINE ,
.BR XmGRID_CELL_SHADOW ,
.BR XmGRID_ROW_LINE ,
.BR XmGRID_ROW_SHADOW ,
.B XmGRID_COLUMN_LINE
and
.BR XmGRID_COLUMN_SHADOW .
All of the grid types vary the way the shadow or line is drawn around
the cell.
.BR XmGRID_ROW_LINE ,
.BR XmGRID_ROW_SHADOW ,
.BR XmGRID_COLUMN_LINE ,
and
.B XmGRID_COLUMN_SHADOW
only draw a border around the rows and columns, giving a more tabular rather
than spreadsheet appearance. The default is
.B XmGRID_CELL_LINE
which draws a solid line around the cells.
.LI XmNhighlightedCells
Points to an array of pointers to rows. Each row is an array of unsigned
char values, one for each column in that row. This data structure is the same
as that for 
.BR XmNcells ,
except each entry is an unsigned char instead of a
String. Each entry in the array will have a value that
is either
.BR HighlightNone ,
.BR HighlightCell ,
.BR HighlightRow ,
.BR HighlightColumn ,
.B HighlightOther
or the bitwise OR of those values, depending on the value of
.B XmNgridType
and which call was used to highlight the cell.
A cell will be drawn as highlighted if the
corresponding unsigned char does not have the value
.BR HighlightNone .
If 
.B XmNhighlightedCells
is
.SM NULL,
.B XbaeMatrix
then no cells have been highlighted.
This resource is copied, and cannot be specified in a resource file.
.LI XmNhorizontalScrollBar
The widget ID of the horizontal 
.BR XmScrollBar .
This resource exists only for those applications that need to tie
another scrollbar to the matrix's for synchronized scrolling.
This resource can not be set to a new value.
.LI XmNhorizontalScrollBarDisplayPolicy
Determines when to display a horizontal scrollbar in the matrix. Possible
values are
.BR XmDISPLAY_NONE ,
which makes the matrix never display the scrollbar,
.BR XmDISPLAY_AS_NEEDED ,
which makes the matrix display the scrollbar when the list is too large,
and
.BR XmDISPLAY_STATIC ,
which makes the matrix always display the scrollbar.
.LI XmNlabelFont
If the value of
.B XmNrenderTable 
is NULL this resource specifies the font list to be used for the text displayed in row 
and column labels. If 
.B XmNlabelFont
is not specified, the value of
.B XmNfontList 
is used for the label fonts. See
.B XmFontListCreate(3X)
to create a font list. This resource is copied.  The preferred way 
of specifying a font for the labels is in a resource file.

When drawing a label, the matrix uses the first entry with the tag 
.B XmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG.

.LI XmNlabelActivateCallback
Specifies a list of callbacks to be called after a button label has been
pressed.  A pointer to an
.B XbaeMatrixLabelActivateCallbackStruct
is passed to the callbacks on this list.
.LI XmNleaveCellCallback
Specifies a list of callbacks to be called immediately after a cell has
been edited. This callback list is called by the EditCell(\|) and
CommitEdit(\|) actions. A pointer to an
.B XbaeMatrixLeaveCellCallbackStruct
is passed to the callbacks. The application can perform cell specific
data checks using this callback list.
.LI XmNleftColumn
Allows the programmer to specify the first non fixed column to appear on the
leftmost side of the matrix.  This resource compliments the
.B XmNtopRow
resource. See the discussion of
.B XmNtopRow
for more details.
.LI XmNmodifyVerifyCallback
Specifies a list of callbacks to be called before text is deleted from
or inserted into the 
.B XmText
cell edit widget. A pointer to an
.B XbaeMatrixModifyVerifyCallbackStruct
is passed to the callbacks. See the
description of the 
.B XmText(3X) XmNmodifyVerifyCallback
resource.
.LI XmNmultiLineCell
is a boolean (default False) which specifies whether the matrix displays
more than one line of text in a cell, when appropriate.
.LI XmNnonFixedDetachedLeft
Indicated that empty space should be displayed after the fixed rows. This 
resource only has effect when
.B XmNfill
is true and
.B XmNfixedRows
is greater than zero.
.LI XmNnonFixedDetachedTop
Indicated that empty space should be displayed after the fixed columns. This 
resource only has effect when
.B XmNfill
is true and
.B XmNfixedColumns
is greater than zero.
.LI XmNoddRowBackground
Specifies a background cell color to use on odd rows. This allows the matrix to
look like computer paper. For wider bands of color, increase the size of
.BR XmNaltRowCount .
.LI XmNprocessDragCallback
Specifies a list of callbacks to be called from the ProcessDrag(\|) action
A pointer to an
.B XbaeMatrixProcessDragCallbackStruct
will be passed to the
callbacks. The application can use this callback list to perform
particular processing during a drag.
.LI XmNrenderTable
Specifies the render table used to derive a font set or a font to draw the text displayed 
in the cells, the 
.B XmText
cell edit widget and the labels.

When drawing a cell, the matrix uses the first entry with the tag 
.B  _MOTIF_DEFAULT_LOCALE
if no tag has been set on the cell using
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellTag.
If a tag has been set on the cell the first entry with a matching tag is used.

When drawing a label, the matrix uses the first entry with the tag "labels". If
there is no such entry the first entry with the tag
.B  _MOTIF_DEFAULT_LOCALE
is used.

.LI XmNresizeCallback
Specifies a list of callbacks to be called when the matrix is resized.
.LI XmNresizeColumnCallback
Specifies a list of callbacks to be called when a column is dynamically
resized by the user.
.LI XmNreverseSelect
Overrides the default
.B XmNselectedForeground
and
.B XmNselectedBackground
and draws a selected cell in the colours specified by
.B XmNcellBackgrounds
and
.B XmNcolors
for the particular cell.  If these values are not set then the default colours
will be used.
.LI XmNrowButtonLabels
An array of Booleans that tells the
.B XbaeMatrix
which row labels should be drawn as a button.  Each Boolean can be
specified as a Boolean string or integer. In order to use this resource,
.B XmNbuttonLabels
should be set to False.
.LI XmNrowLabelAlignment
Specifies the alignment of the row labels. It can be one of
.BR XmALIGNMENT_BEGINNING ", " XmALIGNMENT_CENTER " or " XmALIGNMENT_END .
See the description of 
.B XmNalignment
for 
.BR XmLabel(3X) .
.B XmNrowLabelAlignment
defaults to
.BR XmALIGNMENT_END .
.LI XmNrowLabelBackgrounds
Points to an array of pixel values which specifies the background color of each of
the row labels. If
.B XmNrowLabelBackgrounds
is
.SM NULL,
each row label background will be set according to other resources. This resource is copied.
.LI XmNrowLabelColor
Specifies a Pixel value in which to draw the
.BR XmNrowLabels .
.LI XmNrowLabelForegrounds
Points to an array of pixel values which specifies the foreground color of each of
the row labels. If
.B XmNrowLabelForegrounds
is
.SM NULL,
each row label foreground will be set according to other resources. This resource is copied.
.LI XmNrowLabelWidth
Specifies the width of the row labels. 
.B XmNrowLabelWidth
defaults to the
width of the longest row label.
.LI XmNrowLabels
Points to an array of Strings to be drawn to the left of each row. Each String
may have embedded newline characters, in which case the label will be
drawn on multiple lines. If there is a 
.B XmNxmRowLabels 
defined for this row it will be displayed in place of the 
.B XmNrowLabels. 
If
.B XmNrowLabels
and 
.B XmNxmRowLabels
are
.SM NULL, 
no labels will be drawn. This resource is copied. 
.LI XmNrowHeightInPixels
Specifies wether the elements of 
.B XmNrowHeights 
are measured in pixels or lines.
.LI XmNrowHeights
Points to an array of short, one for each row. These specify the
visible height of the cells in each row. This resource is copied.
.LI XmNrowShadowTypes
Specifies on a per row basis, the
.BR XmNcellShadowType .
Values for the resource are the same as for 
.BR XmNcellShadowType .
This resource is copied.
.LI XmNrowUserData
Points to a user defined data area associated with a particular row.
The data should be set using
.B XbaeMatrixSetRowUserData(\|)
and retrieved using
.BR XbaeMatrixGetRowUserData(\|) .
This resource cannot be specified in a resource file.
.LI XmNrows
Specifies the total number of rows of cells. 
.B XmNrows
must be at least
one. If the number of rows is changed via XtSetValues, then 
.B XmNrowLabels
must change or be
.SM NULL.
The preferred way to dynamically change the
number of rows is to use
.BR XbaeMatrixAddRows(\|) " or " XbaeMatrixDeleteRows(\|) .
.LI XmNscrollBarPlacement
Determines where the scrollbars will be drawn.
See the discussion of
.B XmNscrollBarPlacement
in
.B XmScrolledWindow(3)
for a complete discussion on this resource.
.LI XmNselectCellCallback
Specifies a list of callbacks to be called from the SelectCell(\|) action.
A pointer to an
.B XbaeMatrixSelectCellCallbackStruct
will be passed to the
callbacks. The application can use this callback list to perform
selection/deselection of cells using the provided widget methods.
.LI XmNselectScrollVisible
Specifies whether the matrix will scroll to make the selected cell visible.
This flag is only checked when cells are selected programmatically,
as when the user selects a cell with the mouse, it will already be visible.
.LI XmNselectedBackground
Allows the background of selected cells in
.B XmNselectedCells
to be specified.
.LI XmNselectedCells
Points to an array of pointers to rows. Each row is an array of Boolean
values, one for each column in that row. This data structure is the same
as that for 
.BR XmNcells ,
except each entry is a Boolean instead of a
String. A cell will be drawn as selected if the
corresponding Boolean is True. If 
.B XmNselectedCells
is
.SM NULL,
then no cells have been selected.
This resource is copied.  It cannot be specified in a resource file.
.LI XmNselectedForeground
Allows the foreground of selected cells in
.B XmNselectedCells
to be specified.
.LI XmNshadowType
Specifies the type of shadow drawn around the border of the matrix.
Possible values for this resource are
.BR XmSHADOW_OUT ,
.BR XmSHADOW_IN ,
.BR XmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT ,
and
.BR XmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN .
The default shadow type is XmSHADOW_OUT.
.LI XmNshowArrows
Specifies whether arrows should be drawn when data in a cell has been
obscured due to the value of
.BR XmNcolumnWidths .
.LI XmNspace
Specifies the distance that separates the ScrollBars from the cell grid. The
default value is 4 pixels.
.LI XmNtextBackground
Specifies the background of the 
.B XmText
cell edit widget. This can be used to make the 
.B XmText
stand out against a uniformly colored matrix.
.LI XmNtextBackgroundIsCell
Specifies if the background of the 
.B XmText
cell edit widget defaults to the core background of the matrix or the
background of the cell being edited when 
.B XmNtextBackground
has the value 
.B XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXEL.
.LI XmNtextField
The widget ID of the
.BR XmText .
This resource cannot be set to a new value.
.LI XmNtextShadowThickness
Specifies the
.B XmNshadowThickness
of the
.BR XmText .
Interesting effects can be achieved by setting the
.B XmNcellHighlightThickness
to 0 and replacing the highlight with an indented shadow.
.LI XmNtextTranslations
Specifies the 
.B XmNtranslations
resource of the 
.B XmText
cell edit
widget. See the description of 
.B XmNtranslations
in 
.BR XmText(3X) .
.LI XmNtopRow
Specifies the row which should be displayed at the top of the non-fixed
rows. 
.B XmNtopRow
is specified relative to the first non-fixed row, so
(XmNfixedRows + XmNtopRow) is the actual row number which will be moved
to the top. If (XmNtopRow > (XmNrows - (<number of rows visible> + 
XmNfixedRows), then the actual row which will be moved to the top is
(XmNrows - (<number of rows visible> + XmNfixedRows).
.LI XmNtrackCellCallback
specifies a list of callbacks to be called when the mouse pointer is being moved.
.LI XmNtrailingAttachedBottom
Indicated that any trailing fixed rows should be attached to the bottom
of the matrix. This resource only has effect when
.B XmNfill
is true and
.B XmNtrailingFixedRows
is greater than zero.
.LI XmNtrailingAttachedRight
Indicated that any trailing fixed columns should be attached to the right
of the matrix. This resource only has effect when
.B XmNfill
is true and
.B XmNtrailingFixedColumns
is greater than zero.
.LI XmNtrailingFixedColumns
Specifies the number of trailing columns (starting from the right column)
which should not be horizontally scrollable.
.B XmNtrailingFixedColumns
must be less
than 
.BR XmNcolumns - XmNfixedColumns .
Cells in trailing fixed columns are not editable unless
.B XmNtraverseFixedCells
is set to True.
.LI XmNtrailingFixedRows
Specifies the number of trailing rows (starting from the bottom row) which
should not be vertically scrollable.
.B XmNtrailingFixedRows
must be less than 
.BR XmNrows - XmNfixedRows .
Cells in trailing fixed rows are not editable unless
.B XmNtraverseFixedCells
is set to True.
.LI XmNtraverseCellCallback
Specifies a list of callbacks to be called before a new cell is edited.
These callbacks are called by the EditCell(\|) action and when
.B XbaeMatrix
receives or looses focus. A pointer to an
.B XbaeMatrixTraverseCellCallbackStruct
is passed to the callbacks. The application can specify the next cell
which should be edited via this callback list, thereby performing custom
traversal.
.LI XmNtraverseFixedCells
If True, this resource allows fixed cells and columns to be edited.  The
default is to not allow fixed rows or columns to be edited.
.LI XmNuseXbaeInput
This boolean value determines whether to use XbaeInput or XmTextField
as the widget used for editing cells.
Default is not to use XbaeInput.
.LI XmNvalueChangedCallback
Specifies a list of callbacks to be called after text is deleted from
or inserted into the 
.B XmText
cell edit widget. A pointer to an
.B XbaeMatrixValueChangedCallbackStruct
is passed to the callbacks. See the
description of the 
.B XmText(3X) XmNvalueChangedCallback
resource.
.LI XmNverticalScrollBar
The widget ID of the vertical 
.BR XmScrollBar .
This resource exists only for those applications that need to tie
another scrollbar to the matrix's for synchronized scrolling.
This resource can not be set to a new value.
.LI XmNverticalScrollBarDisplayPolicy
Determines when to display a horizontal scrollbar in the matrix. Possible
values and their effects are listed under
.BR XmNhorizontalScrollBarDisplayPolicy .
.LI XmNvisibleColumns
Specifies the number of non-fixed columns which should be
visible. The widget will request a size which will allow
.B XmNvisibleColumns
columns to be displayed.  The programmer should take into allowance
any
.B XmNfixedColumns
that are specified.  This feature becomes even more apparent if the
number of
.B XmNfixedColumns
changes at runtime as the value may need to be adjusted to avoid a
warning.
.LI XmNvisibleRows
Specifies the number of rows which should be visible at any
one time. The widget will request a size which will allow 
.B XmNvisibleRows
rows to be displayed.
.LI XmNwrapType
When 
.B XmNmultiLineCell 
is true this resource specifies how to break the lines. When 
set to XbaeWrapNone, lines are broken on newlines only. When
set to XbaeWrapContinuous, long lines are further broken up 
so they fit in their cell. When set to XbaeWrapWord the breaking
of long lines occures preferably on spaces.
.LI XmNwriteCellCallback
Specifies  a  list  of  callbacks to be called when a
cell value changes and an
.B XmNdrawCellCallback
is defined. A pointer to  an 
.B XbaeMatrixWriteCellCallbackStruct
is passed to the callbacks.  The
.B XmNwriteCellCallback
allows data to be written back into the application's data structure and must
be defined for an editable
.B XbaeMatrix
with an 
.BR XmNdrawCellCallback .
.LI XmNxmRowLabels
Points to an array of XmStrings to be drawn to the left of each row. If
.B XmNxmRowLabels
is
.SM NULL, 
.B XmNrowLabels 
will be used. This resource is copied.
.LI XmNxmColumnLabels
Points to an array of XmStrings to be drawn above each column. If
.B XmNxmColumnLabels
is
.SM NULL, 
.B XmNcolumnLabels 
will be used. This resource is copied.
.PP
.SH "Inherited Resources"
The following table lists the resources which
.B XbaeMatrix
inherits from
it's superclasses
.BR XmManager ,
.B Compositeand
.BR Core .
For a complete
description of each resource, refer to the man page for that superclass.
The codes in the ``Access'' column indicate whether the given resource can
be set at creation time (C), or set by using XtSetValues (S), or
retrieved by using XtGetValues (G).
.LP
.TS
expand box;
c s s s s
lb | lb | lb | lb | lb
lp7 | lp7 | lp7 | lp7 | lp7 .
XmManager Resource Set
_
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
=
XmNbottomShadowColor	XmCBottomShadowColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNbottomShadowPixmap	XmCBottomShadowPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
_
XmNforeground	XmCForeground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNhighlightColor	XmCHighlightColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNhighlightPixmap	XmCHighlightPixmap	Pixmap	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNinitialFocus	XmCInitialFocus	Widget	NULL	CSG
_
XmNnavigationType	XmCNavigationType	XmNavigationType	XmTAB_GROUP	CSG
_
XmNshadowThickness	XmCShadowThickness	Dimension	0	CSG
_
XmNstringDirection	XmCStringDirection	XmStringDirection	dynamic	CG
_
XmNtopShadowColor	XmCTopShadowColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNtopShadowPixmap	XmCTopShadowPixmap	Pixmap	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNtraversalOn	XmCTraversalOn	Boolean	True	CSG
_
XmNunitType	XmCUnitType	unsigned char	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNuserData	XmCUserData	XtPointer	NULL	CSG
.TE
.LP
.sp
.TS
expand box;
c s s s s
lb | lb | lb | lb | lb
lp7 | lp7 | lp7 | lp7 | lp7 .
Composite Resource Set
=
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNchildren	XmCReadOnly	WidgetList	NULL	G
_
XmNinsertPosition	XmCInsertPosition	XtOrderProc	NULL	CSG
_
XmNnumChildren	XmCReadOnly	Cardinal	0	G
.TE
.LP
.TS
expand box;
c s s s s
lb | lb | lb | lb | lb
lp7 | lp7 | lp7 | lp7 | lp7 .
Core Resource Set
=
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNaccelerators	XmCAccelerators	XtAccelerators	NULL	CSG
_
XmNancestorSensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	dynamic	G
_
XmNbackground	XmCBackground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNbackgroundPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
_
XmNborderColor	XmCBorderColor	Pixel	XtDefaultForeground	CSG
_
XmNborderPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
_
XmNborderWidth	XmCBorderWidth	Dimension	1	CSG
_
XmNcolormap	XmCColormap	Colormap	dynamic	CG
_
XmNdepth	XmCDepth	int	dynamic	CG
_
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
_
XmNheight	XmCHeight	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNinitialResourcesPersistent	XmCInitialResourcesPersistent	Boolean	True	C
_
XmNmappedWhenManaged	XmCMappedWhenManaged	Boolean	True	CSG
_
XmNscreen	XmCScreen	Screen	dynamic	CG
_
XmNsensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	True	CSG
_
XmNtranslations	XmCTranslations	XtTranslations	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNwidth	XmCWidth	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
_
XmNx	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
_
XmNy	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
.TE
.PP
.SH "Callback Information"
.PP
.LI XbaeMatrixAnyCallbackStruct
A callback struct that is suitable for all callbacks that require
the
.IR reason ,
.IR event ,
.I row
and
.I column
to be available.  Any callback called may therefore cast the third
parameter to the following struct in 
.B XbaeMatrix
and can rest assured that evrything in it will be available.
.sp
.ne 7
.TS
lb s s
l lb li .
typedef struct
\&{
	XbaeReasonType	reason;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	XEvent	*event;
.T&
lb s s .
\&} XbaeMatrixAnyCallbackStruct;
.TE
.RS
.sp
Each of the members are set to the appropriate struct for the callback.
.PP
If this idea is a little foreign to you, recommended
reading is K&R II page 213.
.RE
.PP
.LI XmNdefaultActionCallback
Callbacks on the
.B XmNdefaultActionCallback
list are called when the DefaultAction(\|) action occurs.  The
application can bind the DefaultAction(\|) action to any pointer
based event. When a double click occurs on this pointer event,
DefaultAction(\|) will call the callbacks on the
.B XmNdefaultActionCallback
list. A pointer to the following structure is passed to each callback on the
.B XmNdefaultActionCallback
list:
.sp
.ne 7
.TS
lb s s
l lb li .
typedef struct
\&{
	XbaeReasonType	reason;
	XEvent	*event;
	int	row;
	int	column;
.T&
lb s s .
\&} XbaeMatrixDefaultActionCallbackStruct;
.TE
.RS
.sp
.cI reason
Set to
.B XbaeDefaultActionReason .
.cI event
The event that invoked this callback.
.cI row
The row number of the cell in which the double click occurred.
.cI column
The column number of the cell in which the double click occurred.
.cI event
.PP
If an application has an
.BR XmNdefaultActionCallback ,
then the callbacks on the list will be called when the user clicks
twice in a cell within
.BR XmNdoubleClickInterval ,
enabling some action to occur for the particular cell.
.RE
.PP
.LI XmNdrawCellCallback
Callbacks on the
.B XmNdrawCellCallback
list are called when the widget needs to
draw a cell. A pointer to the following structure is passed to each
callback on the
.B XmNdrawCellCallback
list:
.sp
.ne 16
.TS
lb s s
l lb li .
typedef struct
\&{
	XbaeReasonType	reason;
	XEvent	*event;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	int	width;
	int	height;
	XbaeCellType	type;
	String	string;
	Pixmap	pixmap;
	Pixmap	mask;
	Pixel	foreground;
	Pixel	background;
	int	depth;
.T&
lb s s.
\&} XbaeMatrixDrawCellCallbackStruct;
.TE
.RS
.sp
.cI reason
Set to
.BR XbaeDrawCellReason .
.cI event
Always set to
.SM NULL
.cI row
The row number of the cell that needs to be drawn.
.cI column
The column number of the cell that needs to be drawn.
.cI width
The width of the cell that needs to be drawn.
.cI height
The height of the cell that needs to be drawn.
.cI type
The type of ``data'' the programmer wants drawn in the cell, or
which field should be looked at for data to draw:  string or pixmap.
.cI string
The string to draw if \fItype\fP is set to
.BR XbaeString
or
.BR XbaeStringFree .
.cI pixmap
The pixmap to copy if \fItype\fP is set to
.BR XbaePixmap .
It will be clipped
to width by height if necessary.
.cI mask
A mask for the pixmap as obtained from the XPM library.  \fImask\fR is only
necessary when \fIpixmap\fR has a depth greater than one.
.cI foreground
The foreground color of the cell.
.cI background
The background color of the cell.
.cI depth
The depth of the pixmap image (in bits per pixel).  
.PP
If the application adds this callback, when the
.B XbaeMatrix
determines that a
cell at (row, column) needs to be redrawn, the normal cell drawing
mechanism will be skipped and this callback called so the application can
tell the widget what to put in the cell.
.PP
The \fItype\fP field is defaulted to
.B XbaeString
and no cacheing or saving of the string or pixmap is done.
.PP
If the application sets \fItype\fP to XbaePixmap, the width, height and depth
of the returned pixmap will be calculated with a call to
.BR XGetGeometry(\|) .
If the programmer wishes to supply the width, height and depth there is a
marked improvement as a round trip to the X server is avoided.  Note that
all geometry parameters must be supplied to ensure successful display of
the pixmap.
.PP
If a \fImask\fR is also provided, it will be used to display the pixmap
transparently.
Pixmaps drawn in cells also respect the value of
.BR XmNcolumnAlignments .
.PP
By defining an
.B XmNdrawCellCallback
the need for the storage of the
.B XbaeMatrix
data within the matrix is eliminated and can prove to be advantageous
for memory usage.
.PP
To write the data back to the application, use the
.B XmNwriteCellCallback
described below.
.RE
.LI XmNenterCellCallback
Callbacks on the
.B XmNenterCellCallback
list are called from the
EditCell(\|) action just before a cell is edited to determine it's
editability. A pointer to the following structure is passed to each
callback on the
.B XmNenterCellCallback
list:
.sp
.ne 17
.TS
lb s s
l lb li .
typedef struct
\&{
	XbaeReasonType	reason;
	XEvent	*event;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	int	position;
	String	pattern;
	Boolean	auto_fill;
	Boolean	convert_case;
	Boolean	overwrite_mode;
	Boolean	select_text;
	Boolean	map;
	Cardinal	num_params;
	String	*params;
	Boolean	doit;
.T&
lb s s.
\&} XbaeMatrixEnterCellCallbackStruct;
.TE
.RS
.sp
.cI reason
Set to
.BR XbaeEnterCellReason .
.cI event
The event that invoked the callback.
.cI row
The row number of the cell about to be edited.
.cI column
The column number of the cell about to be edited.
.cI position
The location of the cursor in the text field.  The default is to
place the cursor at the end of the string in the cell.
.cI pattern
A pattern for the 
.B XbaeInput
widget (see \fCXbaeInput(3)\fR).  The default is to not specify a
.IR pattern .
.cI auto_fill
Used in conjunction with the setting of the
.I pattern
to allow literals in the
.I pattern
to be automatically inserted.
.cI convert_case
If the \fIpattern\fR specifies an upper or lower case letter, the
character typed in the position can automatically be converted to
the appropriate case when set to True.  The default is to not convert
the case of the typed letter.
.cI overwrite_mode
Normally, the cursor appears as the familiar I caret.  By setting
\fIoverwrite_mode\fR to True, the text field will go into overwrite
mode where keystrokes replace the character underneath the block
cursor.
.cI select_text
Indicates whether the text in the cell should be highlighted (only valid if
\fIdoit\fR is set to True also.
.cI map
Tells the matrix if the
.B XmText
should be mapped onto the cell.  Only makes sense if \fIdoit\fR is set to
False.
.cI num_params
The number of String parameters passed to the EditCell(\|) action.
.cI params
An array containing the num_params String parameters passed to the
EditCell(\|) action.
.cI doit
Indicates whether or not this cell is editable. Setting doit to False
will make this cell not editable. The default value is True.
.PP
If the application determines that the cell at (\fIrow\fR, \fIcolumn\fR) is
not editable, it should set the doit flag to False.
If the \fImap\fR flag is also set to False,
.B XbaeMatrix
will not place the
.B XmText
cell editor on the cell.  If \fImap\fR is left as True, the
.B XmText
will be placed on the cell but the user
will not be able to add or delete characters from it. If the application
leaves \fIdoit\fR as True, then the TextField will be editable. 
In addition, if \fIselect_text\fR is set to True, the text in the cell
will be selected via
.BR XmTextSetSelection .
Assuming
.B XmNpendingDelete
for the
.B XmText
is also True, the selected text will be deleted as soon as the next
text insertion occurs.
.RE
.PP
.LI XmNlabelActivateCallback
Callbacks on the
.B XmNlabelActivateCallback
list are called after a button label has been activated via a mouse click.
A pointer to the following structure is passed to each callback on the
.B XmNlabelActivateCallback
list:
.sp
.ne 9
.TS
lb s s
l lb li .
typedef struct
\&{
	XbaeReasonType	reason;
	XEvent	*event;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	Boolean	row_label;
	String	label;
.T&
lb s s.
\&} XbaeMatrixLabelActivateCallbackStruct;
.TE
.RS
.sp
.cI reason
Set to
.BR XbaeLabelActivateReason .
.cI event
The event that invoked this callback.
.cI row
The row number of the button label or -1 if the button was a column label.
.cI column
The column number of the button label or -1 if the button was a row label.
.cI row_label
If the button label that invoked the callback is a row label, then this
value is set to True.  If it was a column label then it is set to False.
.cI label
The label on the button that was pressed.
.PP
When the
.B XbaeMatrix
receives a ButtonRelease event on the same button label that it received
a ButtonPress event, the
.B XmNlabelActivateCallback
is called to allow the programmer to respond to the event.  The callback
has been provided to emulate some popular spreadsheets on the market.
.RE
.PP
.LI XmNleaveCellCallback
Callbacks on the
.B XmNleaveCellCallback
list are called from the
EditCell(\|) and CommitEdit(\|) actions just before the edit to the current
cell is committed. The application can validate the changes made to the
cell, and allow or disallow them. A pointer to the following structure
is passed to each callback on the
.B XmNleaveCellCallback
list:
.sp
.ne 8
.TS
lb s s
l lb li .
typedef struct
\&{
	XbaeReasonType	reason;
	XEvent	*event;
	int	row, column;
	String	value;
	Boolean	doit;
.T&
lb s s.
\&} XbaeMatrixLeaveCellCallbackStruct;
.TE
.RS
.sp
.cI reason
Set to
.BR XbaeLeaveCellReason .
.cI event
The event that invoked this callback.
.cI row
The row number of the cell being edited.
.cI column
The column number of the cell being edited.
.cI value
Contains the new data which will be stored in this cell if doit is True.
The memory pointed to by value may be modified, or if the new contents
are larger than the current contents, then value should be set to point
to a larger piece of allocated memory.
.cI doit
Indicates whether the edits applied to this cell should actually be
stored into
.BR XbaeMatrix .
Setting doit to False will cause the changes to
be discarded and the cell will retain its original value. The default
value is True.
.PP
If the application determines that the value entered in the cell at
(row, column) is not valid, it should set the doit flag to False. This
will prevent the changes from being stored in the cell. The TextField
edit widget will remain on the current cell. If the application leaves
doit as True, then the changes made to the cell will be committed and
the TextField will move to the next cell or be unmapped. The application
can also modify the String in value, e.g. to force a String to be all
upper case.
.RE
.PP
.LI XmNmodifyVerifyCallback
Callbacks on the
.B XmNmodifyVerifyCallback
list are called while a cell is
being edited. The callbacks are called before text is inserted into or
deleted from the TextField edit widget. A pointer to the following
structure is passed to each callback on the
.B XmNmodifyVerifyCallback
list:
.sp
.ne 9
.TS
lb s s
l lb li .
typedef struct
\&{
	XbaeReasonType	reason;
	XEvent	*event;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	XmTextVerifyCallbackStruct	*verify;
	const char	*prev_text;
.T&
lb s s.
\&} XbaeMatrixModifyVerifyCallbackStruct;
.TE
.RS
.sp
.cI reason
Set to
.BR XbaeModifyVerifyReason .
.cI event
Always set to NULL.
.cI row
The row number of the cell being edited.
.cI column
The column number of the cell being edited.
.cI verify
The contents of this structure and its use are documented in the
.B XmText(3X)
man page.
.cI prev_text
The contents of the cell as seen by this user before the new text.  If
other text has already been entered, this value will not match the
official
.B XbaeMatrix
value of the cell.  This pointer and the string
should not be modified.
.RE
.PP
.LI XmNprocessDragCallback
Callbacks on the
.B XmNprocessDragCallback
list are called from the
ProcessDrag(\|) action. The application can bind the ProcessDrag(\|) 
action to any pointer based event, though by default it is bound to
the Button2Down event.
When this event occurs, ProcessDrag(\|) will call the callbacks on the
.B XmNprocessDragCallback
list. A pointer to the
following structure is passed to each callback on the
.B XmNprocessDragCallback
list:
.sp
.ne 13
.TS
lb s s
l lb li .
typedef struct
\&{
	XbaeReasonType	reason;
	XEvent	*event;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	String	string;
	XbaeCellType	type;
	Pixmap	pixmap;
	Pixmap	mask;
	Cardinal	num_params;
	String	*params;
.T&
lb s s.
\&} XbaeMatrixProcessDragCallbackStruct; 
.TE
.RS
.sp
.cI reason
Set to
.BR XbaeProcessDragReason .
.cI event
The XEvent which invoked the ProcessDrag(\|) action.
.cI row
The row number of the cell where the drag was initiated..
.cI column
The column number of the cell where the drag was initiated..
.cI string
The string in the cell where the drag was initiated if \fItype\fP is
.BR XbaeString
or
.BR XbaeStringFree .
This is provided as a convenience to the application.
.cI type
The type of the cell in which the drag was initiated.
.cI pixmap
The pixmap in the cell where the drag was initiated if \fItype\fP is
.BR XbaePixmap .
This is provided as a convenience to the application.
.cI mask
A mask for the pixmap as obtained from the XPM library.  \fImask\fR is only
necessary when \fIpixmap\fR has a depth greater than one.  Also provided as 
a convenience to the application.
.cI num_params
The number of String parameters passed to the ProcessDrag(\|) action.
.cI params
An array containing the num_params String parameters passed to the
ProcessDrag(\|) action.
.PP
The application can use the
.B XmNprocessDragCallback
list to implement particular processing for Motif's drag-and-drop.
.RE
.PP
.LI XmNresizeCallback
Callbacks on the
.B XmNresizeCallback
list are called when the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget is resized.  A pointer to the following structure is passed to
 each callback on the
.B XmNresizeCallback
list:
.sp
.ne 9
.TS
lb s s
l lb li .
typedef struct
\&{
	XbaeReasonType	reason;
	XEvent	*event;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	Dimension	width;
	Dimension	height;
.T&
lb s s.
\&} XbaeMatrixResizeCallbackStruct; 
.TE
.RS
.sp
.cI reason
Set to
.BR XbaeResizeReason .
.cI event
Always set to
.SM NULL
.cI row
Set to the number of rows in the matrix (provided for convenience).
.cI column
Set to the number of colums in the matrix (provided for convenience).
.cI width
The new width of the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI height
The new height of the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.PP
The application can use the
.B XmNresizeCallback
to adjust such resources as
.BR XmNcolumnWidths ,
.B XmNvisibleColumns
and
.B XmNvisibleRows
when the widget containing an
.B XbaeMatrix
widget is resized.
.RE
.PP
.LI XmNresizeColumnCallback
Callbacks on the
.B XmNresizeColumnCallback
list are called when a column of the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget is dynamically resized by the user.  A pointer to the following
structure is passed to each callback on the
.B XmNresizeColumnCallback
list:
.sp
.ne 10
.TS
lb s s
l lb li .
typedef struct
\&{
	XbaeReasonType	reason;
	XEvent 	*event;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	int	which;
	int	columns;
	short	*column_widths;
.T&
lb s s.
\&} XbaeMatrixResizeColumnCallbackStruct; 
.TE
.RS
.sp
.cI reason
Set to
.BR XbaeResizeColumnReason .
.cI event
The XEvent that ended the resize.  The event will be of type
.BR XButtonReleasedEvent .
.cI row
The row in which the
.B ResizeColumn(\|)
action began.
.cI column
The column in which the
.B ResizeColumn(\|)
action began (and ended).
.cI which
The column that was resized in the
.B ResizeColumn(\|)
action.
.cI columns
The number of columns in the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column_widths
The widths of each column as they stand \fIafter\fP the
.B ResizeColumn(\|)
action.
.PP
The application can use the
.B XmNresizeColumnCallback
to perform post processing after a column has been resized.  By adjusting
the values contained in \fIcolumn_widths\fP the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget will use the values upon return from the callback.  Changing the
number of columns in the matrix in the
.B XmNresizeColumnCallback
should be used carefully as it may cause unexpected results.
.RE


.PP
.LI XmNselectCellCallback
Callbacks on the
.B XmNselectCellCallback
list are called from the
SelectCell(\|) action. The application can bind the SelectCell(\|) action to
any pointer based event. When this event occurs, SelectCell(\|) will call
the callbacks on the
.B XmNselectCellCallback
list. A pointer to the
following structure is passed to each callback on the
.B XmNselectCellCallback
list:
.sp
.ne 11
.TS
lb s s
l lb li .
typedef struct
\&{
	XbaeReasonType	reason;
	XEvent	*event;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	Boolean	**selected_cells;
	String	**cells;
	Cardinal	num_params;
	String	*params;
.T&
lb s s.
\&} XbaeMatrixSelectCellCallbackStruct; 
.TE
.RS
.sp
.cI reason
Set to
.BR XbaeSelectCellReason .
.cI event
The XEvent which invoked the SelectCell(\|) action.
.cI row
The row number of the cell which was selected.
.cI column
The column number of the cell which was selected.
.cI selected_cells
The value of the
.B XmNselectedCells
resource. This is provided as a convenience to the application and will
be 
.SM NULL
if no cells have yet been selected. 
.cI cells
The value of the
.B XmNcells
resource. This is provided as a convenience to
the application and will be 
.SM NULL
if no cells have been specified or the 
.B XmNdrawCellCallback
is being used.
.cI num_params
The number of String parameters passed to the SelectCell(\|) action.
.cI params
An array containing the num_params String parameters passed to the
SelectCell(\|) action.
.PP
The application can use the
.B XmNselectCellCallback
list to implement it's
own selection model. The
.B XbaeMatrixSelectCellCallbackStruct
contains the
array of String parameters passed to the SelectCell(\|) action which
invoked this callback. By binding the SelectCell(\|) action to various
events via the translation manager, and using String action parameters
to distinguish them, the application can implement various selection
models. For example, the following translations could be used to
implement a model in which a modifier key indicates whether a single
cell or an entire row should be selected. The callbacks on the
.B XmNselectCellCallback
list would examine the parameter and take the
appropriate action.
.PP
.ne 3
.TS
l l l
l l l.
#override\\n\\ 
	Shift<Btn1Down>:	SelectCell(cell)\\n\\ 
	Ctrl<Btn1Down>:	SelectCell(row)
.TE
.PP
The callbacks on the
.B XmNselectCellCallback
list can also be used in
other ways, e.g. to pop up a cell specific menu.
.PP
.B NOTE:
If no cells have been selected, the value of \fIselected_cells\fP will be
.SM NULL.
The same applies for \fIcells\fP.  Care must be taken so as not to dereference
these members of the callback struct.
.RE
.PP
.LI XmNtrackCellCallback
Callbacks on the 
.B XmNtrackCellCallback
list are being called by the HandleTracking(\|) action,
which is triggered by pointer motion.
One of the purposes of this callback list is to figure out from which cell
to which cell the pointer is being moved.
A pointer to the
.B XbaeMatrixTrackCellCallbackStruct
structure is being passed. Its fields are defined as :
.sp
.ne 17
.TS
lb s s
l lb li .
typedef struct _XbaeMatrixTrackCellCallbackStruct
\&{
	XbaeReasonType	reason;
	XEvent	*event;
	int	row, column;
	int	prev_row, prev_column;
	Position	pointer_x, pointer_y;
.T&
lb s s.
} XbaeMatrixTrackCellCallbackStruct;
.TE
.RS
.sp
.cI reason
Set to
.BR XbaeSelectCellReason .
.cI event
The XEvent which invoked the HandleTracking(\|) action.
.cI row
This is the row number that the pointer is currently in.
.cI column
This is the column number that the pointer is currently in.
.cI prev_row
The row that the pointer was previously in.
.cI prev_column
The column that the pointer was previously in.
.cI pointer_x
The x position of the pointer.
.cI pointer_y
The y position of the pointer.
.RE

.PP
.LI XmNtraverseCellCallback
Callbacks on the
.B XmNtraverseCellCallback
list are called from the EditCell(\|) action and when 
.B XbaeMatrix
receives or looses focus. The application can customize cell traversal 
using these callbacks.
.B XbaeMatrix
has a default
traversal order, outlined below, which the application can override. A
pointer to the following structure is passed to each callback on the
.B XmNtraverseCellCallback
list:
.sp
.ne 17
.TS
lb s s
l lb li .
typedef struct
\&{
	XbaeReasonType	reason;
	XEvent	*event;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	int	next_row;
	int	next_column;
	int	fixed_rows;
	int	fixed_columns;
	int	trailing_fixed_rows;
	int	trailing_fixed_columns;
	int	num_rows;
	int	num_columns;
	String	param;
	XrmQuark	qparam;
.T&
lb s s.
\&} XbaeMatrixTraverseCellCallbackStruct;
.TE
.RS
.cI reason
Set to
.BR XbaeTraverseCellReason .
.cI event
The event that invoked this callback.
.cI row
The row number of the cell currently being edited.
.cI column
The column number of the cell currently being edited.
.cI next_row
The row number of the next cell to be edited, this can be changed by the
application.
.cI next_column
The column number of the next cell to be edited, this can be changed by
the application.
.cI fixed_rows
The value of the
.B XmNfixedRows
resource. This is provided as a
convenience for the application in calculating the next_row and
next_column fields.
.cI fixed_columns
The value of the
.B XmNfixedColumns
resource. This is provided as a
convenience for the application in calculating the next_row and
next_column fields.
.cI trailing_fixed_rows
The value of the
.B XmNtrailingFixedRows
resource. This is provided as a
convenience for the application in calculating the next_row and
next_column fields.
.cI trailing_fixed_columns
The value of the
.B XmNtrailingFixedColumns
resource. This is provided as a
convenience for the application in calculating the next_row and
next_column fields.
.cI num_rows
The value of the
.B XmNrows
resource. This is provided as a convenience for
the application in calculating the next_row and next_column fields.
.cI num_columns
The value of the
.B XmNcolumns
resource. This is provided as a convenience
for the application in calculating the next_row and next_column fields.
.cI param
The String value of the parameter passed to the EditCell(\|) action.
.cI qparam
The XrmQuark value of the parameter passed to the EditCell(\|) action.
.PP
The EditCell(\|) action takes an arbitrary parameter which it passes
through to the callbacks on the
.B XmNtraverseCellCallback
list in both
String and XrmQuark forms. The EditCell(\|) action recognizes five special
parameters which it uses to implement it's default cell traversal. These
parameters and their corresponding traversal results are:
.PP
.cI Pointer
Set next_row and next_column to the cell underneath the mouse pointer.
.cI Left
If we are currently editing cell (XmNfixedRows, XmNfixedColumns), then
do not move. Otherwise move one column to the left, if that column is
less than
.B XmNfixedColumns
, then move up to the last column of the row
above.
.cI Right
If we are currently editing cell (XmNrows - 1, XmNcolumns - 1), then do
not move. Otherwise move one column to the right, if that column is
greater than or equal to
.B XmNcolumns
, then move down to column
.B XmNfixedColumns
of the row below.
.cI Up
Move up one row. If that row is less than
.B XmNfixedRows
, then move to the
last row.
.cI Down
Move down one row. If that row is greater than or equal to
.B XmNrows
, then
move to row
.BR XmNfixedRows .
.PP
If the EditCell(\|) action recognizes one of these special parameters, it
calculates the new cell to be edited accordingly and stores the results
in the next_row and next_column fields of the
.BR XbaeMatrixTraverseCellCallbackStruct .
If EditCell(\|) does not recognize it's parameter, it sets next_row and
next_column to the current row and column.
It also stores a String and XrmQuark version of it's parameter in the
param and qparam fields.
EditCell(\|) then calls the callbacks on the
.B XmNtraverseCellCallback
list.
These callbacks can examine the parameter and recalculate the next_row
and next_column fields appropriately.
The application can override the default calculation for the special
parameters, or it can define an entirely new parameter with a
corresponding new calculation.
It would do this by binding EditCell(\|) with a new application specific
parameter to an event in a translation table.
It is expected that application callbacks will use the XrmQuark version
of the parameter for efficiency reasons (by statically creating the new
XrmQuarks and comparing them against the incoming qparam).
.PP
When
.B XbaeMatrix
receives the focus it will also call the
.B XmNtraverseCellCallback
callbacks before returning to the current cell or the upper left most visible 
cell if no cell is currently edited. The
.B XbaeMatrixTraverseCellCallbackStruct
will have param and qparm set to
.I Focus. 
If there is no current cell row and column will be set to -1.

When XbaeMatrix looses the focus it will also call the 
.B XmNtraverseCellCallback
with param and qparm set to
.I LoosingFocus.
.RE
.PP
.PP
.LI XmNvalueChangedCallback
Callbacks on the
.B XmNvalueChangedCallback
list are called while a cell is
being edited. The callbacks are called after text is inserted into or
deleted from the TextField edit widget. A pointer to the following
structure is passed to each callback on the
.B XmNvalueChangedCallback
list:
.sp
.ne 7
.TS
lb s s
l lb li .
typedef struct
\&{
      XbaeReasonType  reason;
      XEvent  *event;
      int     row;
      int     column;
.T&
lb s s.
\&} XbaeMatrixValueChangedCallbackStruct;
.TE
.RS
.sp
.cI reason
Set to
.BR XbaeValueChangedReason .
.cI event
The event that triggered this callback.
.cI row
The row number of the cell being edited.
.cI column
The column number of the cell being edited.
.RE
.PP
.LI XmNwriteCellCallback
Callbacks (although it probably only makes sense to have one) on the
.B XmNwriteCellCallback
list are called when the widget needs to
write data to a cell, but only when
.B XmNdrawCellCallback
is defined. A pointer to the following structure is passed to each
callback on the
.B XmNwriteCellCallback
list:
.sp
.ne 11
.TS
lb s s
l lb li .
typedef struct
\&{
	XbaeReasonType	reason;
	XEvent	*event;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	XbaeCellType	type;
	String	string;
	Pixmap	pixmap;
	Pixmap	mask;
.T&
lb s s.
\&} XbaeMatrixWriteCellCallbackStruct;
.TE
.RS
.sp
.cI reason
Set to
.BR XbaeWriteCellReason .
.cI event
Always set to
.SM NULL
.cI row
The row number of the cell that needs to be written.
.cI column
The column number of the cell that needs to be written.
.cI type
The type of ``data'' contained in the cell, either
.BR XbaeString " or " XbaePixmap .
.cI string
The string to store if \fItype\fP is set to
.BR XbaeString .
.cI pixmap
The pixmap to store if \fItype\fP is set to
.BR XbaePixmap .
(maybe a little meaningless unless you can edit a pixmap in a cell)
.cI mask
A mask for the pixmap as obtained from the XPM library.  \fImask\fR is only
necessary when \fIpixmap\fR has a depth greater than one.
.PP
If the application adds this callback, when the
.B XbaeMatrix
is editable and has been assigned an
.BR XmNdrawCellCallback ,
data on the widget can be edited and stored back in the
application's data structure.  Only if an
.B XmNdrawCellCallback
has been assigned to the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget, will the
.B XmNwriteCellCallback
be called.
.PP
At the moment, \fIpixmap\fR and \fImask\fR will be sent to the
.B XmNwriteCellCallback
as
.SM NULL.
.DE
.PP
.SH Translations
.B XbaeMatrix
inherits translations from
.BR XmManager .
In addition,
.B XbaeMatrix
uses the following translation:
.ne 4
\fC
.TS
lw(6cm) l .
:<Btn1Up>:	DefaultAction(\|)\\n\\ 
:<Btn1Down>:	DefaultAction(\|) EditCell(Pointer)\\n\\ 
:Shift<Btn2Down>:	ResizeColumns(\|)\\n\\ 
:<Btn2Down>:	ProcessDrag(\|)\\n\\ 
:<Btn1Motion>:	HandleMotion() HandleTracking()(\|)\\n\\ 
:<Motion>:	HandleTracking()(\|)\\n\\ 
:<Btn4Down>:	ScrollRows(-50)(\|)\\n\\ 
:<Btn5Down>:	ScrollRows( 50)(\|)
.TE
\fR
.PP
.B XbaeMatrix
installs the following default
.B XmNtextTranslations
on the
.B TextField
edit widget:
.ne 11
\fC
.TS
lw(6cm) l .
\&#override\\n\\ 
Shift ~Ctrl ~Meta ~Alt <Key>Tab:	EditCell(Left)\\n\\ 
~Ctrl ~Meta ~Alt <Key>Tab:	EditCell(Right)\\n\\ 
<Key>osfUp:	EditCell(Up)\\n\\ 
<Key>osfDown:	EditCell(Down)\\n\\ 
<Key>osfActivate:	CommitEdit(False)\\n\\ 
~Shift ~Meta ~Alt <Key>Return:	CommitEdit(False)\\n\\ 
<Key>osfCancel:	CommitEdit(False)\\n\\ 
Shift Ctrl ~Meta ~Alt <Key>Tab:	TraversePrev(\|)\\n\\ 
Ctrl ~Meta ~Alt <Key>Tab:	TraverseNext(\|)\\n\\ 
<Key>osfPageDown:	PageDown()\\n\\ 
<Key>osfPageUp:	PageUp()\\n
.TE
\fR
.PP
.SH "Action Routines"
.PP
.sp 2
.IP CancelEdit(\|)
If the single parameter to CancelEdit(\|) is the String True, then it
unmaps the edit TextField, discarding any changes which were made to the
cell being edited. If the parameter is False, then CancelEdit(\|) restores
the edit TextField to the original contents of the cell, discarding any
changes made to the cell being edited. The TextField is not unmapped.
.IP CommitEdit(\|)
.RS
CommitEdit(\|) first calls any callbacks on the
.B XmNleaveCellCallback
list
to determine if the changes made to the current cell are valid. If they
are, it then saves any changes made to the cell into the cell. If the
callbacks on the
.B XmNleaveCellCallback
list return that the changes are
not valid, CommitEdit(\|) does nothing.
.PP
If the changes are valid, CommitEdit(\|) examines it's one parameter,
which must be the string True or False. If the parameter is True, then
the edit TextField is unmapped. If it is False, then the TextField is
not unmapped.
.RE
.IP DefaultAction(\|)
.RS
DefaultAction(\|) sets up a mechanism for determining whether two successive
mouse clicks form a double click.  The DefaultAction(\|) should normally be
used in conjunction with other pointer based events and provides a mechanism
for acting on double clicks in a cell.
.RE
.IP EditCell(\|)
.RS
EditCell(\|) edits a new cell. EditCell(\|) first calculates the new cell to
edit based on it's single parameter. It then calls the callbacks on the
.B XmNtraverseCellCallback
list to allow them to specify a different cell
to edit (see the discussion of
.B XmNtraverseCellCallback
above).
EditCell(\|) then calls the callbacks on the
.B XmNleaveCellCallback
list to
determine if the changes made to the current cell are valid. If they
are, it then saves any changes made to the cell into the cell. If the
changes are not valid, EditCell(\|) does nothing further.
.PP
If the changes are valid, EditCell(\|) attempts to scroll the new cell to
be edited so that it is fully visible. If the new cell is in a fixed row
or column, EditCell(\|) returns and does nothing further (these cells are
not editable). Otherwise, EditCell(\|) calls the callbacks on the
.B XmNenterCellCallback
list to determine if the new cell is editable. It
then moves the
.B XmText
edit widget to the new cell, setting it's
editability based on the return from the
.B XmNenterCellCallback
callbacks.
.RE
.IP ProcessDrag(\|)
.RS
ProcessDrag(\|) calls the callbacks on the
.B XmNprocessDragCallback
list, passing them a pointer to a
.BR XbaeMatrixProcessDragCallbackStruct .
.RE
.IP ResizeColumns(\|)
.RS
Allows the user to dynamically resize the column widths, provided that
.B XmNallowColumnResize
is True.
.RE
.IP ScrollRows(\|)
ScrollRows(\|) makes the rows of the matrix scroll by the pixel amount 
specified by it's argument.
.IP ScrollColumns(\|)
ScrollColumns(\|) makes the columns of the matrix scroll by the pixel 
amount specified by it's argument.
.IP SelectCell(\|)
SelectCell(\|) calls the callbacks on the
.B XmNselectCellCallback
list,
passing them a pointer to a
.BR XbaeMatrixSelectCellCallbackStruct .
This structure will contain the String parameters passed to the SelectCell(\|)
action, among other things (see the discussion of
.B XmNselectCellCallback
above).
.IP TraverseNext(\|)
TraverseNext(\|) will traverse out of the Matrix and into the next tab
group.
.IP TraversePrev(\|)
TraversePrev(\|) will traverse out of the Matrix and into the previous tab
group.
.IP PageDown(\|)
PageDown(\|) causes the Matrix to scroll down a full page.  The text
widget is placed on the first non fixed row of the new page.
.IP PageUp(\|)
PageUp(\|) causes the Matrix to scroll up a full page.  The text
widget is placed on the first non fixed row of the new page.
.SH "Type Converters"
.sp
.PP
In addition to the standard type converters registered by Xt and Motif,
.B XbaeMatrix
registers the following additional type converters:
.IP \fCCvtStringToStringArray(\|)\fP
Converts a comma separated list of Strings to an array of String
pointers, one for each substring. Commas in the list may be escaped with
the character `\\'. This converter allows the
.B XmNrowLabels
and
.B XmNcolumnLabels
resources to be specified in resource files.
.IP \fCCvtStringToWidthArray(\|)\fP
Converts a comma separated list of numeric Strings to an array of short
integers. This converter allows the
.B XmNcolumnWidths
resource to be
specified in resource files.
.IP \fCCvtStringToMaxLengthArray(\|)\fP
Converts a comma separated list of numeric Strings to an array of
integers. This converter allows the
.B XmNcolumnMaxLengths
resource to be
specified in resource files.
.IP \fCCvtStringToAlignmentArray(\|)\fP
Converts a comma separated list of alignments to an array of unsigned
chars. This converter allows the
.B XmNcolumnLabelAlignments
and
.B XmNcolumnAlignments
resources to be specified in resource files.
.IP \fCCvtStringToGridType(\|)\fP
Converts a single string as discussed in
.B XmNgridType
to a grid type value.  This converter allows
.B XmNgridType
to be specified in resource files.
.IP \fCCvtStringToMatrixScrollBarDisplayPolicy(\|)\fP
Converts a single string as discussed in
.B XmNhorizontalScrollBarDisplayPolicy
and
.B XmNverticalScrollBarDisplayPolicy
to a display policy value.  This converter allows
.B XmNhorizontalScrollBarDisplayPolicy
and
.B XmNverticalScrollBarDisplayPolicy
to be specified in resource files.
.IP \fCCvtStringToCellTable(\|)\fP
Converts a comma separated list of Strings with \\n delimited rows to a
two dimensional array of String
pointers. This converter allows the
.B XmNcells
resource to be specified in resource files.
.IP \fCCvtStringToPixelTable(\|)\fP
Converts a comma separated list of color names with \\n delimited rows to a
two dimensional array of Pixel values. This converter allows the
.BR XmNcellBackgrounds and XmNcolors
resources to be specified in resource files.
.IP \fCCvtStringToBooleanArray(\|)\fP
Converts a comma separated list of string or numeric values to an
array of Booleans.  The converter recongnises a comma separated list
of values. Each value is parsed such that if the first character is
'1', 'T' or 't' it is interpreted as True, if the first character is
'0', 'F' or 'f' it is interpreted as False, otherwise it is illegal.
This converter allows the
.B XmNcolumnButtonLabels
and
.B XmNrowButtonLabels
resources to be
specified in resource files.
.SH "Public Functions"
.sp
The following external entry points to
.B XbaeMatrix
class methods are
defined:
.sp
.B XbaeCreateMatrix(\|)
.PP
.RS
.ne 5
.TS
l s s
l l li.
Widget XbaeCreateMatrix(\|)
	Widget	parent;
	String	name;
	ArgList	arglist;
	Cardinal	argcount;
.TE
.sp
.cI parent
Specifies the parent widget ID.
.cI name
Specifies the name of the created widget
.cI arglist
Specifies the argument list
.cI argcount
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list (arglist)
.PP
.B XbaeCreateMatrix(\|)
creates an unmanaged instance of an XbaeMatrix widget and returns
the associated widget ID.
.RE
.PP
.sp
.B XbaeMatrixAddColumns(\|)
.PP
.RS
.ne 12
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixAddColumns(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	position;
	String	*columns;
	String	*labels;
	short	*widths;
	int	*max_lengths;
	unsigned	char *alignments;
	unsigned	char *label_alignments;
	Pixel	*colors;
	int	num_columns;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI position
The column position before which to add the new columns. Must be greater
than or equal to zero, and less than or equal to
.BR XmNcolumns .
.cI columns
Points to an ordinary two dimensional array of String, or
.SM NULL.
These Strings will be used to modify the
.B XmNcells
resource to populate the new
columns. Each row in the array must have
.B XmNrows
elements and represents
one of the new columns. columns must have
.B num_columns
rows. If columns is
.SM NULL,
empty columns will be added.
.cI labels
Points to an array of String, or
.SM NULL.
These Strings will be used as the
.B XmNcolumnLabels
for the new columns. The labels array must have
num_columns elements. If labels is
.SM NULL,
and
.B XmNcolumnLabels
is set, then
blank column labels will be used.
.cI widths
Points to an array of short or
.SM NULL.
These values will be used as the
.B XmNcolumnWidths
for the new columns. The widths array must have
num_columns elements. if widths is NULL then 
a default width will be used for the new columns.
.cI max_lengths
Points to an array of int, or
.SM NULL.
These values will be used as the
.B XmNcolumnMaxLengths
for the new columns. The max_lengths array must have
num_columns elements. If max_lengths is
.SM NULL,
then the corresponding
value from widths will be used.
.cI alignments
Points to an array of unsigned char, or
.SM NULL.
These values will be used
as the
.B XmNcolumnAlignments
for the new columns. The alignments array
must have num_columns elements. If alignments is
.SM NULL,
then
.B XmALIGNMENT_BEGINNING
will be used.
.cI label_alignments
Points to an array of unsigned char, or
.SM NULL.
These values will be used
as the
.B XmNcolumnLabelAlignments
for the new column labels. 
The label_alignments array must have num_columns elements. If
label_alignments is
.SM NULL,
then
.B XmALIGNMENT_BEGINNING
will be used.
.cI colors
Points to an array of Pixel, or
.SM NULL.
These values will be used to set
the corresponding columns in the
.B XmNcolors
table for the new columns. The colors array
must have num_columns elements. If colors is
.SM NULL,
then
.B XmNforeground
will be used.
.cI num_columns
The number of columns which are being added to the widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixAddColumns(\|)
allows the application developer to dynamically
add new columns anywhere in the Matrix. The columns will be added before
the column specified in position. Columns are numbered starting at zero.
To append new columns onto the end of the Matrix, specify position as
the total number of columns. Most of the arguments to
.B XbaeMatrixAddColumns(\|)
may be specified as
.SM NULL.
Default values will be
used by the widget.
.PP
If the programmer attempts to add columns using
.B XbaeMatrixAddColumns(\|)
when there are no rows, it will result in a warning message.  There must be
at least one row in the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget to add columns.
.PP
To maintain backward compatability, the cell backgrounds cannot be set
in a call to 
.B XbaeMatrixAddColumns(\|)
and must be set (if so desired) in a separate call to
.BR XtVaSetValues(\|) .
.sp
.RE
.ne 8
.B XbaeMatrixAddRows(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixAddRows(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	position;
	String	*rows;
	String	*labels;
	Pixel	*colors;
	int	num_rows;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI position
The row position before which to add the new rows. Must be greater than
or equal to zero, and less than or equal to
.BR XmNrows .
.cI rows
Points to an ordinary two dimensional array of String, or
.SM NULL.
These
Strings will be used to modify the
.B XmNcells
resource to populate the new
rows. Each row in the array must have
.B XmNcolumns
elements and represents
one of the new rows. rows must have num_rows rows. If rows is
.SM NULL,
empty rows will be added.
.cI labels
Points to an array of String, or
.SM NULL.
These Strings will be used as the
.B XmNrowLabels
for the new rows. The labels array must have num_rows
elements. If labels is
.SM NULL,
and
.B XmNrowLabels
is set, then blank row
labels will be used
.cI colors
Points to an array of Pixel, or
.SM NULL.
These values will be used to set
the corresponding rows in the
.B XmNcolors
table for the new rows. The colors array
must have num_rows elements. If colors is
.SM NULL,
then
.B XmNforeground
will
be used.
.cI num_rows
The number of rows which are being added to the widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixAddRows(\|)
allows the application developer to dynamically add
new rows anywhere in the Matrix. The rows will be added before the row
specified in position. Rows are numbered starting at zero. To append new
rows onto the end of the Matrix, specify position as the total number of
rows.
.PP
To maintain backward compatability, the cell backgrounds cannot be set
in a call to 
.B XbaeMatrixAddRows(\|)
and must be set (if so desired) in a separate call to
.BR XtVaSetValues(\|) .
.RE
.sp
.ne 4
.B XbaeMatrixCancelEdit(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixCancelEdit(\|)
	Widget	w;
	Boolean	unmap;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI unmap
Specifies whether the TextField cell edit widget should be unmapped
after the edit is canceled.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixCancelEdit(\|)
allows the application developer to
programmatically cancel a cell edit in progress, discarding any changes
made by the user. This function unmaps the TextField edit widget if the
unmap flag is True. If unmap is False, the contents of the TextField are
restored to their original value, and the TextField is not unmapped.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixCommitEdit(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
Boolean XbaeMatrixCommitEdit(\|)
	Widget	w;
	Boolean	unmap;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An XbaeMatrix widget.
.cI unmap
Specifies whether the TextField cell edit widget should be unmapped
after an edit is successfully committed.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixCommitEdit(\|)
can be used by the application developer to
programmatically commit an edit, saving any changes made by the user.
This will cause the callbacks on the
.B XmNleaveCellCallback
list to be
called to verify that the changes the user made are valid. If the
changes are valid, then they are saved into the cell and if the unmap
flag is True, the TextField widget will be unmapped.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixDeleteColumns(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixDeleteColumns(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	position;
	int	num_columns;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI position
The column position at which to begin deleting columns. Must be greater
than or equal to zero, and (position + num_columns) must be less than or
equal to
.BR XmNcolumns .
.cI num_columns
The number of columns to delete from the widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixDeleteColumns(\|)
allows the application developer to
dynamically delete columns from anywhere in the Matrix. Columns will be
deleted starting at the column specified by position.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixDeleteRows(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixDeleteRows(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	position;
	int	num_rows;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An XbaeMatrix widget.
.cI position
The row position at which to begin deleting rows. Must be greater than
or equal to zero, and (position + num_rows) must be less than or equal
to
.BR XmNrows .
.cI num_rows
The number of rows to delete from the widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixDeleteRows(\|)
allows the application developer to dynamically
delete rows from anywhere in the Matrix. Rows will be deleted starting
at the row specified by position.
.sp
.ne 3
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixDeselectAll(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixDeselectAll(\|)
	Widget	w;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixDeselectAll(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically deselect all cells.
.B XbaeMatrixDeselectAll(\|)
redraws the
cells in normal video. All Booleans in the
.B XmNselectedCells
array will
be set to False.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixDeselectCell(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixDeselectCell(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell to deselect.
.cI column
The column of the cell to deselect.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixDeselectCell(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically deselect a cell.
.B XbaeMatrixDeselectCell(\|)
redraws the
cell in normal video. The corresponding Boolean in the
.B XmNselectedCells
array will be set to False.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixDeselectColumn(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixDeselectColumn(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column
The column to deselect.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixDeselectColumn(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically deselect a column.
.B XbaeMatrixDeselectColumn(\|)
draws the column in normal video. The corresponding Booleans in the
.B XmNselectedCells
array will be set to False.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixDeselectRow(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixDeselectRow(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row to deselect.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixDeselectRow(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically deselect a row.
.B XbaeMatrixDeselectRow(\|)
draws the row in reverse video (or selectedForeground / selectedBackground
if set). The corresponding Booleans in the
.B XmNselectedCells
array will be set to False.
.sp
.ne 3
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixDisableRedisplay(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixDisableRedisplay(\|)
	Widget	w;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixDisableRedisplay(\|)
and
.B XbaeMatrixEnableRedisplay(\|)
allow an application to make multiple changes to a matrix
without immediate visual updates. When multiple changes are
made with redisplay enabled, visual flashing often occurs.
These routines help eliminate this problem.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixEditCell(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixEditCell(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell to be edited.
.cI column
The column of the cell to be edited.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixEditCell(\|)

allows the application developer to programmatically force a specific
cell to be edited. This function will first attempt to commit the edit
in the current cell. If the
.B XmNleaveCellCallback
callbacks disallow this commit, then
.B XbaeMatrixEditCell(\|)
will return. Otherwise the specified cell is
scrolled until it is visible. If the specified cell is in a fixed row or
column, it cannot be edited and
.B XbaeMatrixEditCell(\|)
will return. Next, the callbacks on the
.B XmNenterCellCallback
callback list are called for
the specified cell to determine it's editability. Then the TextField
edit widget is mapped on top of the specified cell.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixEnableRedisplay(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixEnableRedisplay(\|)
	Widget	w;
	Boolean	redisplay;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI redisplay
Force the matrix to redisplay if True and no other
calls to
.B XbaeMatrixDisableRedisplay(\|)
have been made.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixDisableRedisplay(\|)
and
.B XbaeMatrixEnableRedisplay(\|)
allow an application to make multiple changes to a matrix
without immediate visual updates. When multiple changes are
made with redisplay enabled, visual flashing often occurs.
These routines help eliminate this problem.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixEventToXY(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
Boolean XbaeMatrixEventToXY(\|)
	Widget	w;
	XEvent	*event;  
	int	*x;
	int	*y;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI event
An X event structure pointer, usually from an XEventHandler function.
.cI x
The translated x coordinate.
.cI y
The translated y coordinate.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixEventToXY
enables the programmer to determine the x and y values of a given event
with respect to the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.  The returned values are also adjusted to allow for the
.B XbaeClip
widget.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixFirstSelectedCell(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixFirstSelectedCell(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	*row;
	int	*column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The first selected row.
.cI column
The first selected column.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixFirstSelectedCell(\|)
allows the application developer to find out which cell is the first selected.
The function traverses the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget in a left to right, top to bottom manner to determine this value.
If no cell is selected, row and column are set to -1.
.sp
.ne 3
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixFirstSelectedColumn(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixFirstSelectedColumn(\|)
	Widget	w;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixFirstSelectedColumn(\|)
returns the column number of the first selected column in the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.  The function traverses the matrix from column 0.  A column must
be entirely selected for the column to be considered selected.  If no
column is selected then -1 is returned.
.sp
.ne 3
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixFirstSelectedRow(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixFirstSelectedRow(\|)
	Widget	w;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixFirstSelectedRow(\|)
returns the row number of the first selected row in the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.  The function traverses the matrix from row 0.  A row must
be entirely selected for the row to be considered selected.  If no
row is selected then -1 is returned.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetCell(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
String XbaeMatrixGetCell(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell whose value should be retrieved.
.cI column
The column of the cell whose value should be retrieved.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixGetCell(\|)
returns the String value stored in the specified
cell. This String should not be freed. To examine many cells, it is more
efficient to do an XtGetValues(\|) on
.B XmNcells
and examine the values in
that array.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetCellBackground(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
Pixel XbaeMatrixGetCellBackground(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
A
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell whose background color should be retrieved.
.cI column
The column of the cell whose background color should be retrieved.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetCellColor(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
Pixel XbaeMatrixGetCellColor(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
A
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell whose foreground color should be retrieved.
.cI column
The column of the cell whose foreground color should be retrieved.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetCellPixmap(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixGetCellPixmap(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	Pixmap	*pixmap;
	Pixmap	*mask;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
A
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell whose pixmap and mask should be retrieved.
.cI column
The column of the cell whose pixmap and mask should be retrieved.
.cI pixmap
A pointer to a Pixmap variable, in which the function will store the cell's pixmap.
.cI mask
A pointer to a Pixmap variable, in which the function will store the cell's pixmap mask.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetCellTag(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
XmStringTag XbaeMatrixGetCellTag(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
A
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell whose tag should be retrieved.
.cI column
The column of the cell tag should be retrieved.
.PP
.sp
.B XbaeMatrixGetCellTag
returns the font tag of the indicated cell. The application should not modify or free the 
returned value.
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetCellUserData(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
XtPointer XbaeMatrixGetCellUserData(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell whose data should be retrieved.
.cI column
The column of the cell whose data should be retrieved.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixGetCellUserData(\|)
returns a pointer to the data assigned to the cell in the given coordinates.
The data should be set using
.BR XbaeMatrixSetCellUserData(\|) .
If no data is found to be associated with the particular cell,
.SM NULL
is returned.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetColumnWidth(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixGetColumnWidth(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column
The column whose width we're querying.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixGetColumnWidth(\|)
is a convenient way to query a column width.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetColumnLabel(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
String XbaeMatrixGetColumnLabel(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column
The column of the label that should be retrieved.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixGetColumnLabel(\|)
returns a pointer to the label of the given column.  If no column labels
exist or the given column is not a valid column 
.SM NULL
is returned.
If no data is found to be associated with the particular column,
.SM NULL
is returned.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetColumnUserData(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
XtPointer XbaeMatrixGetColumnUserData(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column
The column of the cell whose data should be retrieved.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixGetColumnUserData(\|)
returns a pointer to the data assigned to the given column.
The data should be set using
.BR XbaeMatrixSetColumnUserData(\|) .
If no data is found to be associated with the particular column,
.SM NULL
is returned.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetCurrentCell(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixGetCurrentCell(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	*row;
	int	*column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell the ``cursor'' or TextField is in.
.cI column
The column of the cell the ``cursor'' or TextField is in.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixGetCurrentCell(\|)
allows the application developer to determine what cell is being edited
or has focus.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetEventRowColumn(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixGetEventRowColumn(\|)
	Widget	w;
	XEvent	*event;
	int	*row;
	int	*column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI event
An X event structure pointer.  This is usually from an XEventHandler
function.  It can be either a button or a key event.
.cI row
The row of the cell the ``cursor'' or TextField is in.
.cI column
The column of the cell the ``cursor'' or TextField is in.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixGetEventRowColumn(\|)
allows the application developer to
determine what cell corresponds to an (x, y) in an event.  If the (x, y)
of the event is a legal cell, row and column are set and True is
returned.  However, if the (x, y) is not over a cell, False is returned,
and row and column will have undefined values.
.sp
.ne 3
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetNumSelected(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixGetNumSelected(\|)
	Widget	w;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixGetNumSelected(\|)
returns the number of cells that are currently selected in the given
matrix.  The widget maintains an internal variable as cells are selected
and deselected so a complete traversal of the widget is avoided.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetRowHeight(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixGetRowHeight(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row whose height we query.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixGetRowHeight(\|)
is a convenient way to query a row height.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetRowLabel(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
String XbaeMatrixGetRowLabel(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the label that should be retrieved.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixGetRowLabel(\|)
returns a pointer to the label of the given row.  If no row labels
exist or the given row is not a valid row 
.SM NULL
is returned.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetRowUserData(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
XtPointer XbaeMatrixGetRowUserData(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell whose data should be retrieved.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixGetRowUserData(\|)
returns a pointer to the data assigned to the given row.
The data should be set using
.BR XbaeMatrixSetRowUserData(\|) .
If no data is found to be associated with the particular row,
.SM NULL
is returned.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetXmColumnLabel(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
XmString XbaeMatrixGetXmColumnLabel(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column
The column of the xmLabel that should be retrieved.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixGetXmColumnLabel(\|)
returns a pointer to the xmLabel of the given column.  If no xmColumnLabels
exist or the given column is not a valid column 
.SM NULL
is returned.
If no data is found to be associated with the particular column,
.SM NULL
is returned.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixGetXmRowLabel(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
XmString XbaeMatrixGetXmRowLabel(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the xmLabel that should be retrieved.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixGetXmRowLabel(\|)
returns a pointer to the xmLabel of the given row.  If no xmRowLabels
exist or the given row is not a valid row 
.SM NULL
is returned.
If no data is found to be associated with the particular row,
.SM NULL
is returned.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixHighlightCell(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixHighlightCell(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell to highlight.
.cI column
The column of the cell to highlight.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixHighlightCell(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically highlight a cell.
.B XbaeMatrixHighlightCell(\|)
draws the highlight around the cell. The corresponding unsigned char in the
.B XmNhighlightedCells
array will be have its
.B HighlightCell
bit set.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixHighlightColumn(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixHighlightColumn(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column
The column to highlight.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixHighlightColumn(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically highlight a column.
.B XbaeMatrixHighlightColumn(\|)
draws the highlight around the column if
.B XmNgridType
is
.B XmGRID_COLUMN_SHADOW
or from around each cell in the column otherwise.
The corresponding unsigned chars in the
.B XmNhighlightedCells
array will be have its
.B HighlightColumn
or
.B HighlightOther
bit set, depending on whether
.B XmNgridType
is set to
.B XmGRID_COLUMN_SHADOW
or not.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixHighlightRow(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixHighlightRow(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row to highlight.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixHighlightRow(\|)
allows the application developer to
programmatically highlight a row.
.B XbaeMatrixHighlightRow(\|)
draws the highlight around the row if
.B XmNgridType
is
.B XmGRID_ROW_SHADOW
or from around each cell in the row otherwise.
The corresponding unsigned chars in the
.B XmNhighlightedCells
array will be have its
.B HighlightRow
or
.B HighlightOther
bit set, depending on whether
.B XmNgridType
is set to
.B XmGRID_ROW_SHADOW
or not.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixIsCellSelected(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
Boolean XbaeMatrixIsCellSelected(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell to check.
.cI column
The column of the cell to check.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixIsCellSelected(\|)
allows the application developer to determine whether or not a particular
cell is selected. The function returns True if the cell is selected and False
otherwise.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixIsCellVisible(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
Boolean XbaeMatrixIsCellVisible(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell to check.
.cI column
The column of the cell to check.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixIsCellVisible(\|)
allows the application developer to determine whether or not a particular
cell is in the visible area of the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget. The function returns True if the cell is visible and False otherwise.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixIsColumnSelected(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
Boolean XbaeMatrixIsColumnSelected(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column
The column of the matrix to check.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixIsColumnSelected(\|)
allows the application developer to determine whether or not a particular column is
selected. The function returns True if the column is selected and False
otherwise. A column must be selected in its entirety for
.B XbaeMatrixIsColumnSelected(\|)
to return True.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixIsColumnVisible(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
Boolean XbaeMatrixIsColumnVisible(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column
The column of the matrix to check.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixIsColumnVisible(\|)
allows the application developer to determine whether or not a particular column is
in the visible area of the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget. The function returns True if the column is visible and False
otherwise.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixIsRowSelected(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
Boolean XbaeMatrixIsRowSelected(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the matrix to check.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixIsRowSelected(\|)
allows the application developer to determine whether or not a particular row is
selected. The function returns True if the row is selected and False
otherwise. A row must be selected in its entirety for
.B XbaeMatrixIsRowSelected(\|)
to return True.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixIsRowVisible(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
Boolean XbaeMatrixIsRowVisible(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the matrix to check.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixIsRowVisible(\|)
allows the application developer to determine whether or not a particular row is
in the visible area of the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget. The function returns True if the row is visible and False
otherwise.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixMakeCellVisible(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixMakeCellVisible(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row to scroll into the visible area of the matrix.
.cI column
The column to scroll into the visible area of the matrix.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixMakeCellVisible(\|)
allows a cell to be programatically scrolled into the visible area of the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.  By calling this function, the
.B XmNselectScrollVisible
resource is ignored.  For a more accurate cell location after scrolling,
the programmer should use the
.BR XmNleftColumn and XmNtopRow
resources.
.sp
.ne 3
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixNumRows(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixNumRows(\|)
	Widget	w;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixNumRows(\|)
returns the number of rows in the given matrix.

.sp
.ne 3
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixNumColumns(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixNumColumns(\|)
	Widget	w;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixNumColumns(\|)
returns the number of columns in the given matrix.
.sp
.ne 3
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixNumRows(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixNumRows(\|)
	Widget	w;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixNumRows(\|)
returns the number of rows in the given matrix.
.sp
.ne 3
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixRefresh(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixRefresh(\|)
	Widget	w;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixRefresh(\|)
allows the application developer to
force the widget to redraw itself.  This might be used when the
programmer knows the widget's values have changed, but the widget
has not detected the change.  For example, the quickest way to swap
the values of 2 rows would be to do an XtGetValues on
.BR XmNcells ,
swap the values of the 2 rows, and then do an XtSetValues on
.B XmNcells
with the same StringTable variable.  Because of the way the Intrinsics
work, the widget will not see this change and will display the old
values until a redraw is preformed because of a resize or scroll event
(assuming no other change in the XtSetValues caused a redraw).
Calling
.B XbaeMatrixRefresh(\|)
will cause the correct values to be drawn
and overcome this limitation in the Intrinsics.  While this function
should rarely be needed, it is provided ``just in case''.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixRefreshCell(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixRefreshCell(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell to redraw.
.cI column
The column of the cell to redraw.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixRefreshCell(\|)
allows the application developer to redraw a specific cell of the
matrix.  This function is particularly useful when used with the
.B XbaeMatrixDrawCellCallback
as it allows updates of the data without an explicit expose event.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixRefreshColumn(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixRefreshColumn(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column
The column of the matrix to redraw.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixRefreshColumn(\|)
allows the application developer to efficiently redraw a specific column
 of the matrix.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixRefreshRow(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixRefreshRow(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the matrix to redraw.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixRefreshRow(\|)
allows the application developer to efficiently redraw a specific row
 of the matrix.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixRowColToXY(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixRowColToXY(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	int	*x;
	int	*y;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row the of the cell in question.
.cI column
The column the of the cell in question.
.cI x
The x coordinate returned that represents the left coordinates of the given
cell.
.cI y
The y coordinate returned that represents the upper coordinates of the given
cell.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixRowColToXY(\|)
allows the application developer to determine the coordinates of the upper
left corner of a given cell.  If the given widget is not an
.B XbaeMatrix
widget, False will be returned and the values of x and y will be undefined.
This function is useful for drag and drop calculations.
.sp
.ne 3
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixSelectAll(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSelectAll(\|)
	Widget	w;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSelectAll(\|)
allows the application developer to
programmatically select all cells.
.B XbaeMatrixSelectAll(\|)
redraws the
cells in reverse video. All Booleans in the
.B XmNselectedCells
array will
be set to True.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixSelectCell(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSelectCell(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell to select.
.cI column
The column of the cell to select.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSelectCell(\|)
allows the application developer to
programmatically select a cell.
.B XbaeMatrixSelectCell(\|)
first scrolls the
specified cell until it is visible, and then draws the cell in reverse
video (or selectedForeground / selectedBackground if set).
 The corresponding Boolean in the
.B XmNselectedCells
array will be
set to True.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixSelectColumn(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSelectColumn(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column
The column to select.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSelectColumn(\|)
allows the application developer to
programmatically select a column.
.B XbaeMatrixSelectColumn(\|)
first scrolls
the specified column until it is visible, and then draws the column in
reverse video (or selectedForeground / selectedBackground if set).
The corresponding Booleans in the
.B XmNselectedCells
array
will be set to True.
.sp
.ne 4
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixSelectRow(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSelectRow(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row to select.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSelectRow(\|)
allows the application developer to
programmatically select a row.
.B XbaeMatrixSelectRow(\|)
first scrolls the
specified row until it is visible, and then draws the row in reverse
video (or selectedForeground / selectedBackground if set).
The corresponding Booleans in the
.B XmNselectedCells
array will be
set to True.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixSetCell(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetCell(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	const	String value;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell whose value should be set.
.cI column
The column of the cell whose value should be set.
.cI value
The new value to set this cell to.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetCell(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically
set the value of the specified cell. To set the values of many cells, it
may be more efficient to do an XtSetValues(\|) on the
.B XmNcells
resource.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellBackground(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetCellBackground(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	Pixel	color;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell whose backgroundshould be set.
.cI column
The column of the cell whose background should be set.
.cI color
The new color to which to set this cell's background.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellBackground(\|)
is a convenient way to specify and modify the
.B XmNcellBackgrounds
resource when changing the background of a single cell. If
.B XmNcellBackgrounds
is
.SM NULL,
then
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellBackground(\|)
will create a Pixel
table initialized to
.B XmNforeground
except for the cell specified in it's arguments. If
.B XmNcellBackgrounds
is not
.SM NULL,
then
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellBackground(\|)
will changed the specified cell in that resource to the specified color.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellColor(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetCellColor(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	Pixel	color;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell whose color should be set.
.cI column
The column of the cell whose color should be set.
.cI color
The new color to which to set this cell.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellColor(\|)
is a convenient way to specify and modify the
.B XmNcolors
resource when changing the color of a single cell. If
.B XmNcolors
is
.SM NULL,
then
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellColor(\|)
will create a Pixel
table initialized to
.B XmNforeground
except for the cell specified in it's arguments. If
.B XmNcolors
is not
.SM NULL,
then
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellColor(\|)
will changed the specified cell in that resource to the specified color.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellPixmap(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetCellPixmap(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	Pixmap	pixmap;
	Pixmap	mask;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
A
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell whose pixmap and mask should be set.
.cI column
The column of the cell whose pixmap and mask should be set.
.cI pixmap
the function will store the contents of this Pixmap variable
.cI mask
the function will store the contents of this variable as the pixmap mask
.PP
.sp
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellPixmap
will set the pixmap and the associated mask of the indicated cell.
If the row or column are out of bounds, or the widget is not an
.B XbaeMatrix
widget, then nothing is changed; this erroneous condition is silently ignored.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellShadow(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetCellShadow(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	unsigned char	shadow_type;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell whose shadow should be set.
.cI column
The column of the cell whose shadow should be set.
.cI shadow_type
The value to which to set the cells shadow
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetShadow(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically
set the shadow of a specified cell.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellTag(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetCellTag(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	XmStringTag	tag;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell whose tag should be set.
.cI column
The column of the cell whose tag should be set.
.cI tag
The value to which to set the cells tag
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetTag(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically
set the font tag of a specified cell. This value is copied (quarkified).
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellUserData(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetCellUserData(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	XtPointer	data;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell whose value should be set.
.cI column
The column of the cell whose value should be set.
.cI data
A pointer to a user defined data area.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellUserData(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically
set the user data of a specified cell. To set the data value of many cells,
it may be more efficient to do an XtSetValues(\|) on the
.B XmNcellUserData
resource.  This resource is copied.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.\"
.\" XXX 1
.\"
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixSetCellWidget
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetCellWidget(w, row, column, widget) 
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	Widget	widget;
.TE
.xcb2
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellWidget(\|)
is a function to attach a widget to a matrix cell.
The cell is selected by specifying its
.B row
and
.B column ,
.B widget
is the cell widget to be associated with that cell.
XbaeMatrix will manage the cell widget's position and size so it
is displayed inside the cell at all times, including when scrolling.
.PP
Using a NULL
.B widget
removes the link between a widget and its cell.
Only one widget can be in a cell,
a widget should also be in only one cell at a time.
.xcb3
.\"
.\" XXX 2
.\"
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellWidget(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetCellWidget(w, row, column, widget) 
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
	Widget	widget;
.TE
.sp
.B XbaeMatrixSetCellWidget(\|)
is a function to attach a widget to a matrix cell.
The cell is selected by specifying its
.B row
and
.B column ,
.B widget
is the cell widget to be associated with that cell.
XbaeMatrix will manage the cell widget's position and size so it
is displayed inside the cell at all times, including when scrolling.
.PP
Using a NULL
.B widget
removes the link between a widget and its cell.
Only one widget can be in a cell,
a widget should also be in only one cell at a time.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.\"
.\" XXX 3
.\"
.B XbaeMatrixSetColumnBackgrounds(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetColumnBackgrounds(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	position;
	Pixel	*colors;
	int	num_colors;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI position
The column position at which to begin applying the new backgrounds. Must be
greater than or equal to zero, and (position + num_colors) must be less
than or equal to
.BR XmNcolumns .
.cI colors
Points to an array of Pixel. These specify the backgrounds for the cells in
the specified columns. The colors array must have num_colors elements.
.cI num_colors
The number of colors in the colors array.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetColumnBackgrounds(\|)
is a convenient way to specify and modify the
.B XmNcellBackgrounds
resource when setting the background of an entire column or columns. If
.B XmNcellBackgrounds
is
.SM NULL,
then
.B XbaeMatrixSetColumnBackgrounds(\|)
will create a Pixel table initialized to
.B XmNforeground
except for the columns specified in it's arguments. If
.B XmNcellBackgrounds
is not
.SM NULL,
then
.B XbaeMatrixSetColumnBackgrounds(\|)
will changed the specified columns in that
resource to the specified colors.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixSetColumnColors(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetColumnColors(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	position;
	Pixel	*colors;
	int	num_colors;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI position
The column position at which to begin applying the new colors. Must be
greater than or equal to zero, and (position + num_colors) must be less
than or equal to
.BR XmNcolumns .
.cI colors
Points to an array of Pixel. These specify the colors for the cells in
the specified columns. The colors array must have num_colors elements.
.cI num_colors
The number of colors in the colors array.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetColumnColors(\|)
is a convenient way to specify and modify the
.B XmNcolors
resource when setting the color of an entire column or columns. If
.B XmNcolors
is
.SM NULL,
then
.B XbaeMatrixSetColumnColors(\|)
will create a Pixel table initialized to
.B XmNforeground
except for the columns specified in it's arguments. If
.B XmNcolors
is not
.SM NULL,
then
.B XbaeMatrixSetColumnColors(\|)
will changed the specified columns in that
resource to the specified colors.
.sp
.ne 6
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixSetColumnWidth(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetColumnWidth(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
	int	width;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column
The column whose width we'll be changing.
.cI width
The new width of this column.
A column width can be 0 to hide a column.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetColumnWidth(\|)
is a convenient way to change the width of a column without the
need to allocate an array with column width numbers.
Passing -1 as the new width will reset the column width to the default value.
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixSetColumnLabel
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetColumnLabel(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
	String	value;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column
The column of the label is to be set.
.cI value
The new value of the label.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetColumnLabel(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically
change the label of a specified column.
.xcb3
.sp
.ne 5
.RE
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixSetColumnShadow
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetColumnShadow(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
	unsidned char	shadow_type;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column
The column for which the shadow to be set.
.cI shadow_type
The new value of the shadow.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetColumnShadow(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically
change the shadow of a specified column.
.xcb3
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixSetColumnUserData
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetColumnUserData(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
	XtPointer	data;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column
The column whose value should be set.
.cI data
A pointer to a user defined data area.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetColumnUserData(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically
associate user data for the specified column.
.xcb3
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixSetRowBackgrounds
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetRowBackgrounds(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	position;
	Pixel	*colors;
	int	num_colors;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI position
The row position at which to begin applying the new colors. Must be
greater than or equal to zero, and (position + num_colors) must be less
than or equal to
.BR XmNrows .
.cI colors
Points to an array of Pixel. These specify the backgrounds for the cells in
the specified rows. The colors array must have num_colors elements.
.cI num_colors
The number of colors in the colors array.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetRowBackgrounds(\|)
is a convenient way to specify and modify the
.B XmNcellBackgrounds
resource when setting the background of an entire row or rows. If
.B XmNcellBackgrounds
is
.SM NULL,
then
.B XbaeMatrixSetRowBackgrounds(\|)
will create a Pixel
table initialized to
.B XmNforeground
except for the rows specified in it's arguments. If
.B XmNcellBackgrounds
is not
.SM NULL,
then
.B XbaeMatrixSetRowBackgrounds(\|)
will changed the specified rows in that resource to the specified colors.
.xcb3
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixSetRowColors
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetRowColors(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	position;
	Pixel	*colors;
	int	num_colors;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI position
The row position at which to begin applying the new colors. Must be
greater than or equal to zero, and (position + num_colors) must be less
than or equal to
.BR XmNrows .
.cI colors
Points to an array of Pixel. These specify the colors for the cells in
the specified rows. The colors array must have num_colors elements.
.cI num_colors
The number of colors in the colors array.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetRowColors(\|)
is a convenient way to specify and modify the
.B XmNcolors
resource when setting the color of an entire row or rows. If
.B XmNcolors
is
.SM NULL,
then
.B XbaeMatrixSetRowColors(\|)
will create a Pixel
table initialized to
.B XmNforeground
except for the rows specified in it's arguments. If
.B XmNcolors
is not
.SM NULL,
then
.B XbaeMatrixSetRowColors(\|)
will changed the specified rows in that resource to the specified colors.
.xcb3
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixSetRowHeight
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetRowHeight(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	height;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row whose height we'll be changing.
.cI height
The new height of this row.
A row height can be 0 to hide a row.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetRowHeight(\|)
is a convenient way to change the height of a row without the
need to allocate an array with row height numbers.
Passing -1 as the new height will reset the row's height to the default value.
.xcb3
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixSetRowLabel
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetRowLabel(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	String	value;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the label is to be set.
.cI value
The new value of the label.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetRowLabel(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically
change the label of the specified row.
.xcb3
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixSetRowShadow
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetRowShadow(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
	unsigned char	shadow_type;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row whose shadow should be set.
.cI shadow_type
The value of the new shadow.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetRowShadow(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically change the
shadow for the specified row.
.xcb3
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixSetRowUserData
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetRowUserData(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
	XtPointer	data;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row whose value should be set.
.cI data
A pointer to a user defined data area.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetRowUserData(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically
associate user data for the specified row.
.xcb3
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixSetXmColumnLabel
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetXmColumnLabel(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
	XmString	value;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column
The column of the xmLabel is to be set.
.cI value
The new value of the xmLabel.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetXmColumnLabel(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically
change the xmLabel of a specified column.

.xcb3
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixSetXmRowLabel
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSetXmRowLabel(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	XmString	value;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the xmLabel is to be set.
.cI value
The new value of the xmLabel.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSetXmRowLabel(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically
change the xmLabel of a specified row.
.xcb3
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixSortColumns
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSortColumns(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	(*proc)(Widget, int, int, void *);
	void	*user_data;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI proc
a pointer to a function that can compare columns.
.cI user_data
a pointer the application can use for its own needs.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSortColumns
allows you to sort the columns in the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget according to criteria determined by the
.B proc
function.
The
.B proc
function should have the above signature and functionality as demanded by the
.B qsort(3)
function.
It will be called with a the matrix being sorted, the indices of two columns
to compare and the user_data pointer
.B XbaeMatrixSortColumns
was called with. It should return -1, 0, or 1 as appropriate. It is
guaranteed that the matrix does not change while sorting and the 
necessary reordering will only take place after the last call to proc
has been made.
.xcb3
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixSortRows
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixSortRows(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	(*proc)(Widget, int, int, void *);
	void	*user_data;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI proc
a pointer to a function that can compare rows.
.cI user_data
a pointer the application can use for its own needs.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixSortRows
allows you to sort the rows in the
.B XbaeMatrix
widget according to criteria determined by the
.B proc
function.
The
.B proc
function should have the above signature and functionality as demanded by the
.B qsort(3)
function.
It will be called with the matrix being sorted, the indices of two rows
to compare and the user_data pointer 
.B XbaeMatrixSortRows 
was called with. It should return -1, 0, or 1 as appropriate. It is
guaranteed that the matrix does not change while sorting and the 
necessary reordering will only take place after the last call to proc
has been made.
.xcb3
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixUnhighlightAll
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixUnhighlightAll(\|)
	Widget	w;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixUnhighlightAll(\|)
allows the application developer to
programmatically unhighlight all cells.
.B XbaeMatrixUnhighlightAll(\|)
erases the highlight from all cells.
All unsigned chars in the
.B XmNhighlightedCells
array will
be set to 
.BR HighlightNone .
.xcb3
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixUnhighlightCell
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixUnhighlightCell(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
	int	column;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row of the cell to unhighlight.
.cI column
The column of the cell to unhighlight.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixUnhighlightCell(\|)
allows the application developer to
programmatically unhighlight a cell.
.B XbaeMatrixUnhighlightCell(\|)
erases the highlight from the cell.
The corresponding unsigned char in the
.B XmNhighlightedCells
array will be have its
.B HighlightCell
bit cleared.
.xcb3
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixUnhighlightColumn
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixUnhighlightColumn(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	column;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI column
The column to unhighlight.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixUnhighlightColumn(\|)
allows the application developer to programmatically unhighlight a column.
.B XbaeMatrixUnhighlightColumn(\|)
erases the highlight from around the column if
.B XmNgridType
is
.B XmGRID_COLUMN_SHADOW
or from around each cell in the column otherwise.
The corresponding unsigned chars in the
.B XmNhighlightedCells
array will be have its
.B HighlightColumn
or
.B HighlightOther
bit cleared, depending on whether
.B XmNgridType
is set to
.B XmGRID_COLUMN_SHADOW
or not.
.xcb3
.xcb1 XbaeMatrixUnhighlightRow
.TS
l s s
l l li .
void XbaeMatrixUnhighlightRow(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	row;
.TE
.xcb2
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI row
The row to unhighlight.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixUnhighlightRow(\|)
allows the application developer to
programmatically unhighlight a row.
.B XbaeMatrixUnhighlightRow(\|)
erases the highlight from around the row if
.B XmNgridType
is
.B XmGRID_ROW_SHADOW
or from around each cell in the row otherwise.
The corresponding unsigned chars in the
.B XmNhighlightedCells
array will be have its
.B HighlightRow
or
.B HighlightOther
bit cleared, depending on whether
.B XmNgridType
is set to
.B XmGRID_ROW_SHADOW
or not.
.xcb3
.B XbaeMatrixVisibleCells(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixVisibleCells(\|)
	Widget	w;
	int	*top_row;
	int	*bottom_row;
	int	*left_column;
	int	*right_column;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.cI top_row
The first row that is currently visible in the matrix.
.cI bottom_row
The last row that is currently visible in the matrix.
.cI left_column
The leftmost column that is currently visible in the matrix.
.cI right_column
The rightmost column that is currently visible in the matrix.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixVisibleCells(\|)
allows the the application developer to obtain the currently visible
portion of the
.B XbaeMatrix
.IR w .
.sp
.ne 3
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixVisibleColumns(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixVisibleColumns(\|)
	Widget	w;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixVisibleColumns(\|)
allows the the application developer to programmatically check how many
columns are currently displayed in the
.B XbaeMatrix
.IR w .
A partially visible column will be declared an entire column.
.sp
.ne 3
.RE
.B XbaeMatrixVisibleRows(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeMatrixVisibleRows(\|)
	Widget	w;
.TE
.sp
.cI w
An
.B XbaeMatrix
widget.
.PP
.B XbaeMatrixVisibleRows(\|)
allows the the application developer to programmatically check how many
rows are currently displayed in the
.B XbaeMatrix
.IR w .
A partially visible row will be declared an entire row.
.PP


.ne 3
.RE
.B XbaeGetVersionNum(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
int XbaeGetVersionNum(\|)
.TE
.sp
.PP
.B XbaeGetVersionNum(\|)
is a function that returns the numeric representation of the version
of the Xbae library that your program is working with.
This is the run-time version of the Xbae widgets, where
.B XbaeVersion
is a macro that represents the compile-time version.
.PP
The numeric representation is a simple calculation based on the
major, minor, and pico numbers representing an Xbae widget release.
E.g. version 4.8.1 would be represented as 40801.
.PP
Releases prior to 4.8.0 didn't have this functionality.
.PP
.sp
.ne 3
.RE
.B XbaeGetVersionText(\|)
.PP
.RS
.TS
l s s
l l li .
char * XbaeGetVersionText(\|)
.TE
.sp
.PP
.B XbaeGetVersionText(\|)
is a function that returns the textual representation of the version
of the Xbae library that your program is working with.
This is the run-time version of the Xbae widgets, where
.B XbaeVersionTxt
is a macro that represents the compile-time version.
.PP
.RE
.sp

.RE
.sp




.SH "Additional Behavior"
.sp
Using XtSetValues to set the Matrix's
.B XmNwidth
resource to 0 will cause
it to recompute it's horizontal size. It will request a new size which
results in
.B XmNvisibleColumns
columns being displayed. If
.B XmNvisibleColumns
is 0, then it will request a new size such that it
does not need a horizontal ScrollBar (full horizontal size).
.PP
Using XtSetValues to set the Matrix's
.B XmNheight
resource to 0 will cause
it to recompute it's vertical size. It will request a new size which
results in
.B XmNvisibleRows
rows being displayed. If
.B XmNvisibleRows
is 0,
then it will request a new size such that it does not need a vertical
ScrollBar (full vertical size).
.PP
An XtSetValues on
.B XmNvisibleRows
will cause the Matrix to request a new
size which results in
.B XmNvisibleRows
non-fixed rows being displayed,
only if the new value is different than the old one.
.PP
An XtSetValues on
.B XmNvisibleColumns
will cause the Matrix to request a
new size which results in the first
.B XmNvisibleColumns
non-fixed columns
being displayed, only if the new value is different than the old one.
.PP
An XtSetValues on any other resource will not result in a request for a
new size. Setting other resources in conjunction with setting
.B XmNwidth
and/or
.B XmNheight
to 0 allows for more control of the Matrix's geometry.
.PP
An XtSetValues setting
.B XmNrowLabelWidth
to 0 will cause
.B XmNrowLabelWidth
to be set to the width of the longest row label.
.sp
.SH "Virtual Bindings"
.sp
The bindings for virtual keys are vendor specific. For information about
bindings for virtual buttons and keys, see
.BR VirtualBindings(3X) .
.SH AUTHOR
.B Andrew Wason
\fC(aw@bae.bellcore.com)\fP of Bellcore, 
Piscataway NJ, wrote the original version of the Xbae widgets.  His final
release of the widgets was version 3.8.
.sp
.B Kevin Brannen
\fC(kbrannen@metronet.com)\fP took over maintainership
following Andrew Wason's departure and released version 4.0.
.sp
.B Andrew Lister
\fC(lister@db.com)\fP maintained from 1995 to 1999.
.SH "SPECIAL THANKS"
Andrew Wason for the original idea and source code.
.br
Jay Schmidgall for his contributions.
.br
Nick Banyard for providing the multibyte extensions.
.br
Callum Gibson for the pattern parsing in the XbaeInput widget.
.br
Sascha Goebel for debugging the scroll-per-pixel code.
.br
Tobias Oed for lots of code cleanup and debugging.
.br
The people from Arcad Systemhaus for code submission for XbaeMatrixSort
and a couple of related functionalities,
and easier pixmap support.
.TE
.SH RELEASE
.sp
This document describes XbaeMatrix, version 4.60.2.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B Core(3X), Composite(3X), XmManager(3X), XmScrollBar(3X), XbaeInput(3X),
XmText(3X)
.SH "Notice of Limitation"
.sp
Bellcore, previous and current maintainers of the Xbae widgets
(collectively 'authors') provide this information solely
to professionals who have the appropriate degree of experience to
understand and interpret its contents in accordance with generally
accepted engineering or other professional standards and applicable
regulations. No recommendations as to products or vendors is made or
should be implied.
.PP
While the information contained herein has been prepared from sources
deemed to be reliable, the authors reserve the right to revise the
information without notice, but has no obligation to do so. Unless the
recipient has been expressly granted a license by Bellcore under
separate applicable written agreement with Bellcore, no license,
expressed or implied, is granted under any patents, copyrights or other
intellectual property rights. Use of the information is at your
discretion and shall not be deemed an inducement by Bellcore to infringe
any existing or later-issued patent, copyrights or other intellectual
property right.
.PP
THE AUTHORS MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS AND EXTENDS NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, WITH RESPECT TO THE INFORMATION, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, AND THE WARRANTY AGAINST INFRINGEMENT OF PATENTS OR OTHER
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS. THE INFORMATION IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'', AND
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY LOST PROFITS OR OTHER INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES RELATING TO THE INFORMATION.
.PP
Copyright 1991, 1992 Bellcore.
.br
Copyright 1995-99 Andrew Lister
All Rights Reserved.
.br
Copyright 1999-2002 LessTif Developers
.sp 3
The above no warranty extends to all additions and contributions.  No
contributor shall be held liable; this work is provided ``as is''.  If
this is a problem for you, then don't use this software.
